----- DOC | Admission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ | 2026-07-22 -----
Admission
 Cavite State University welcomes aspiring students to embark on transformative journey of learning, growth, and excellence.

 Home > Admission 
 COURSE OFFERINGS

----- DOC | Administration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/administration/ | 2026-07-16 -----
ADMINISTRATION
 Leading with vision and service.
Committed to advancing the University's mission through collaborative governance, strategic leadership, and excellence in public service.

 Home > Administration 
 OFFICES
 

 

 OFFICE OF THE UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT
 

 

 Provides overall leadership and direction in achieving the University's vision, mission, and goals.

 OVP FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
 

 

 Oversees academic programs, instruction, curriculum development, and student affairs services.

 OVP FOR RESEARCH, INNOVATION, AND EXTENSION
 

 

 Promotes research, innovation, extension services, and community engagement initiatives

 OVP FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPPORT SERVICES
 

 

 Manages administrative operations, human resource, general services, and support systems.

 OVP FOR BUSINESS AND RESOURCE GENERATION
 

 

 Leads business development, resource generation, and income generating projects.

 OVP FOR PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
 

 

 Champions strategic planning, institutional effectiveness, and development initiatives.

----- DOC | Laya at Diwa | https://cvsu.edu.ph/laya-at-diwa/ | 2026-07-16 -----
LAYA AT DIWA
 CvSU Historical Landmark
A symbol of Truth, Excellence, Service

 Home > Laya at Diwa 
 ABOUT THE MONUMENT
 

 

 This brass artwork carries the University's ideals of TRUTH, EXCELLENCE and SERVICE.

“Laya at Diwa” is a creation of the Castrillos of Imus, Cavite (led and supervised by Jonnel P. Castrillo).

It was inaugurated on December 15, 2006 by Hon. Senator Edgardo J. Angara, on the occasion of the University's centenary celebration.

 

 There are five basic elements in the artwork together with the symbolic figures and meanings.

 Unchained Female
 

 The unchained female figure, holding a book, represents the empowered Filipino woman.

 She is beauty personified and is today's contemporary woman – a mother, a nurturer, an educator, and a humble servant to humanity.

 
 Male Figure
 

 The male figure with a pen and a torch represents the dignified Filipino father – strong, prominent, dignified and excellent in his field of endeavor besides being portrayed as persistent searcher of truth.

 The flame of the torch carries the letters CvSU for Cavite State University – serving as the guiding light of his noble quest.

 The interlocked arms of the man and the woman signifies unity of purpose and direction.

 
 Child
 

 The child figure, in a dynamic pose standing on top of the pillar and reaching out a dove, represents the youth in general and recognized as the proverbial hope of the future that needs molding and nurturing.

 The dove symbolizes peace and freedom.

 
 Central Pillar
 

 The central pillar symbolizes growth and development.

 It represents Filipinos' common aspiration for an improved quality of life – a kind of life with equity, peace, justice and harmony.

 The pillar is ever growing, directed higher but always deeply rooted in history as depicted by the murals on the sides of the base.

 The murals show the important historical events that took place in the province of Cavite and throughout the Philippines and portray events showing Filipino's life and spirit under imperial Spain and other colonizers including their continuing struggle for freedom and independence.

 
 Base
 

 The entire artwork is mounted on a CvSU logo-shaped base to serve as a fitting reminder to the entire CvSU community of its great responsibility to remain faithful to the University's vision and mission and to hold sacred its tenets of TRUTH, EXCELLENCE and SERVICE.

----- DOC | CvSU Hymn | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cvsu-hymn/ | 2026-07-16 -----
Cavite State University Hymn
 Hail Alma Mater Dear CvSU all the way through

 Home > CvSU Hymn 
 OFFICIAL LYRICS

 
 Hail Alma Mater Dear CvSU all the way through
 Seat of hope that we dream of
 Under the sky so blue

 

 

 
 Verdant fields God's gift to you Open our lives a new
 Oh, our hearts, our hands, our minds, too
 In your bossom thrive and grow.

 

 

 
 Seeds of hope are now in bloom Vigilant sons to you have sworn
 To CvSU our faith goes on
 Cradle of hope and bright vision.

 
 These sturdy arms that care Are the nation builders
 Blessed with strength and power
 To our Almighty we offer.

 

 

 
 We Pray for CvSU God's Blessing be with you
 You're the master, we're the builders
 CvSU leads forever.

----- DOC | History | https://cvsu.edu.ph/history/ | 2026-07-08 -----
Our History
 Rooted in a rich legacy of agriculture and education,Cavite State University has grown through generations of transformation, commitment, and service to the province and the nation.

 Home > History 
 A JOURNEY THROUGH TIME

 1906
 

 Indang Intermediate School

 1918
 

 Indang Farm School

 1927
 

 Indang Rural High School

 1958
 

 Don Severino National Agriculture School

 1964
 

 Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC)

 1998
 

 Cavite State University

 
 
 
 
 
 

 The Cavite State University (CvSU) has its humble beginnings in 1906 as the Indang Intermediate School with the American Thomasites as the first teachers. Several transformations in the name of the school took place; Indang Farm School in 1918, Indang Rural High School in 1927, and Don Severino National Agriculture School in 1958. In 1964, the school was converted into a State College by virtue of Republic Act 3917 and became known as Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC).

 On January 22, 1998, by virtue of Republic Act No.8468, DSAC was converted into Cavite State University. In 2001, Cavite College of Fisheries (CACOF) in Naic, Cavite and Cavite College of Arts and Trade (CCAT) in Rosario, Cavite, were integrated to the University by virtue of CHED Memo No. 27 s. 2000. Since then, additional campuses in the province were established through memoranda of agreement with the LGUs. At present, CvSU has 11 campuses in the province. The main campus, approximately 70 hectares in land area and named as Don Severino delas Alas Campus, is in Indang, Cavite.

 CvSU is mandated “to provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction, and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.”

 The University is offering close to 100 curricular programs in the undergraduate and graduate levels. It has more than 25,000 students and 1,200 faculty and staff from all campuses. The University is also authorized to certify and confer appropriate academic degrees in accordance with the Expanded Tertiary Education and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP). It has been accredited by TESDA as Trade and Testing Venue, and designated by the Department of Agriculture as the National Center for Research and Development for Coffee and Urban Agriculture. It also hosts the Southern Tagalog Agriculture Research and Development Consortium (STARDEC), the Affiliated Renewable Energy Center for Region IV-A, and the Regional ICT Center for Region IV-A.

 CvSU adheres to its commitment to Truth, Excellence and Service as it aims to be the “premier University in historic Cavite recognized for excellence in the development of globally competitive and morally upright individuals”.

----- DOC | Mandate, Mission, Vision, Core Values & Quality Policy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mandate-mission-vision-core-values-quality-policy/ | 2026-07-08 -----
Mandate, Mission, Vision, Core Values, & Quality Policy
 Guiding our journey. Inspiring excellence.
Building a better future for Cavite and beyond.

 Home > Mandate, Mission, Vision, Core Values & Quality Policy 
 Vision Mission Core Values Quality Policy 
 Mandate

 Section 2 of Republic Act No. 8468 “An Act Converting the Don Severino Agricultural College in the Municipality of Indang, Province of Cavite into a State University, to be Known as the Cavite State University” states that,

 “ The University shall primarily provide advance instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas. ”

 Vision
 The premier university in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement.

 

 Mithiin ng Pamantasan
 Ang nangungunang pamantasan sa makasaysayang Kabite na kinikilala sa kahusayan sa paghubog ng mga indibidwal na may pandaigdigang kakayahan at kagandahang asal. 

 Mission
 Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.

 

 Hangarin ng Pamantasan
 Ang Cavite State university ay makapagbigay ng mahusay, pantay at makabuluhang edukasyon sa sining, agham at teknolohiya sa pamamagitan ng may kalidad na pagtuturo at tumutugon sa pangangailangang pananaliksik at mga gawaing pangkaunlaran. Makalikha ito ng mga indibidwal ng dalubhasa, may kasaysayan at kagandahan-asal sa pandaigdigang kakayahan. 

 Core Values

 Truth
 
 Integrity
 
 Excellence
 
 Service

 Quality Policy

 We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

----- DOC | Transparency Seal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/transparency-seal/ | 2026-07-02 -----
TRANSPARENCY SEAL
 Cavite State University is committed to transparency, accountability, and good governance. Access key government documents, reports, and disclosures in compliance with the Transparency Seal.

 

 Home > Transparency Seal 
 
 Transparency Seal Categories
 

 Explore documents and reports of the Transparency Seal

 I. The agency's mandate and functions, names of its officials with their position and designation, and contact information

 
 The Agency's Mandate and Functions 

 CvSU Key Officials

 

 II. Annual Financial Reports

 FAR No. 1: SAAOBDB (Statement of Appropriations, Allotments, Obligations, Disbursements and Balances)
 2026
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2025
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2024
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 Summary Report on Disbursements
 2026
 January
 February
 March
 April
 May
 June
 July
 August
 September
 October
 November
 December

 2025
 January
 February
 March
 April
 May
 June
 July
 August
 September
 October
 November
 December

 BAR No. 1: Quarterly Physical Report of Operations / Physical Plan
 2026
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2025
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2024
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 FAR No. 5: Quarterly Report on Revenue and Other Receipts
 2026
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2025
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 2024
 First Quarter
 Second Quarter
 Third Quarter
 Fourth Quarter

 Financial Plan (BED No. 1)
 
 2026

 2025

 2024

 2023

 

 III. DBM Approved Budgets and Corresponding Targets

 2026
 Budget
 Target

 2025
 Budget
 Target

 IV. Projects, Programs and Activities, Beneficiaries, and Status of Implementation

 
 Projects Beneficiaries and Status of Implementation FY 2025

 Projects Beneficiaries and Status of Implementation FY 2024

 Projects, beneficiaries and status of implementation FY 2023

 Projects, beneficiaries and status of implementation FY 2022

 Projects, beneficiaries and status of implementation FY 2021

 Projects, beneficiaries and status of implementation FY 2020

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2025

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2024

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2023

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2022

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2021

 Capital Outlay Projects FY 2020

 

 V. Annual Procurement Plan

 
 Indicative FY 2026 APP NON-CSE

 FY 2025 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes within 1st Sem)

 FY 2024 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 2nd Semester)

 FY 2025 Annual Procurement Plan

 Indicative FY 2025 APP NON-CSE

 FY 2024 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 1st Semester)

 FY 2024 Annual Procurement Plan

 FY 2023 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 2nd Semester)

 Indicative FY 2024 Annual Procurement Plan Non-CSE

 FY 2023 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 1st Semester)

 FY 2023 Annual Procurement Plan

 FY 2022 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 2nd Semester)

 Indicative FY 2023 Annual Procurement Plan

 Indicative FY 2023 Annual Procurement Plan (APP-non-CSE)

 FY 2022 Annual Procurement Plan (Changes in 1st Semester)

 FY 2022 Procurement Monitoring Report (January-June 2022)

 2021 APCPI – Cavite State University

 FY 2021 Annual Procurement Plan (Revised)

 FY 2022 Annual Procurement Plan

 

 VI. Procurement Monitoring Report

 
 FY 2025 Procurement Monitoring Report 1st Semester

 FY 2024 Procurement Monitoring Report 2nd Semester

 FY 2024 Procurement Monitoring Report 1st Semester

 FY 2023 Procurement Monitoring Report 2nd Semester

 FY 2023 Procurement Monitoring Report 1st Semester

 FY 2022 Procurement Monitoring Report

 FY 2021 Procurement Monitoring Report

 FY 2020 Procurement Monitoring Report

 FY 2019 Procurement Monitoring Report

 

 VII. QMS ISO Certification for at least one core process by an international certifying body (ICB)

 
 ISO 9001:2015 Certificate valid until 03 Dec 2027

 Appendix to Certificate

 

 VIII. System of Ranking Delivery Units

 
 System of ranking of delivery units and individuals 2020

 System of ranking of delivery units and individuals 2019

 System of ranking of delivery units and individuals 2018

 

 IX. The Agency Review and Compliance Procedure of Statements and Financial Disclosures

 
 Certificate of Compliance – SALN Submission – 2024

 Review and Compliance Procedure – 2024

 Certificate of Compliance – SALN Submission – 2023

 Review and Compliance Procedure – 2023

 Review and Compliance Committee

 

 X. The Final People's Freedom of Information (FOI) Manual signed by head of agency

 
 Freedom of Information Manual

 One-Page FOI Manual (English)

 One-Page FOI Manual (Tagalog)

 FOI Reports

----- DOC | Home | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ | 2026-06-25 -----
Empowering Futures,
 Transforming Communities
 CvSU adheres to its commitment to Truth, Integrity, Excellence and Service as it aims to be the “premier University in historic Cavite recognized for excellence in the development of globally competitive and morally upright individuals”.
 Know More 

 
 Admission
 Apply and be part of CvSU

 Programs
 Explore our Academic Programs

 Calendar
 View important dates and events

 Campuses
 Locate our Satellite Campuses

 Student Services
 Resources and support for students

 Announcements
 Latest updates and advisories

 Nurturing Excellence.
 Building a Better Future.
 About CvSU
 CvSU is mandated “to provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction, and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.”

 
 
 

 

 
 Academic Programs
 Choose your path
 Shape your future

 
 NEWS UPDATES
 

 CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects
 Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects…

 
 CvSU ranks 1001-1500th in THE Sustainability Impact Ratings
 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved to 1001-1500th ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) Sustainability Impact Ratings 2026. 

 
 Congratulations to CvSU's 38 new CPAs
 Cavite State University recognizes the hard work, dedication, and perseverance of our examinees as we achieved a 57.58% overall performance…

 
 Champions of Innovation: Honoring WURI 2026 Contributors
 In recognition of the collective efforts that strengthened Cavite State University's global standing in innovation, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro,…

 
 CvSU congratulates its new Licensed Professional Teachers
 Cavite State University (CvSU) once again proved its excellence in teacher education after achieving remarkable results in the March 2026…

 
 CvSU ranks 217th in WURI's top 500 Global Innovative Universities
 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved its global ranking to 217th place and placing within the Top 100 in 16 categories…

 
 CvSU congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers, Master Electricians
 Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers and Master Electricians who successfully passed the April 2026 examinations. 

 
 CvSU awarded as one of DENR-EMB's top eco-friendly schools
 Cavite State University's (CvSU) exemplary commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship has been recognized during the 2025 National Search for…

 
 
 

 ANNOUNCEMENTS
 

 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗧𝘄𝗼 (𝟮) 𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗦𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗼𝗿 𝗥𝗲𝗽𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗮𝘁𝗶𝘃𝗲𝘀 (𝗣𝗦𝗥) 𝘁𝗼 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗚𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗕𝗼𝗮𝗿𝗱 (Extended)
 𝐂𝐀𝐋𝐋 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐍𝐎𝐌𝐈𝐍𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍𝐒 𝐄𝐗𝐓𝐄𝐍𝐃𝐄𝐃! The Cavite State University Board of Regents announces the 𝗲𝘅𝘁𝗲𝗻𝘀𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗱𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗲 for the 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵…

 
 4th International Conference on WELA 2026
 [hurrytimer id="23142"] FINAL CALL FOR ABSTRACTS | 𝟰𝘁𝗵 𝗜𝗻𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻𝗮𝗹 𝗖𝗼𝗻𝗳𝗲𝗿𝗲𝗻𝗰𝗲 𝗼𝗻 𝗪𝗼𝗺𝗲𝗻 𝗘𝗺𝗽𝗼𝘄𝗲𝗿𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗟𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗽 𝗶𝗻 𝗔𝗴𝗿𝗶𝗰𝘂𝗹𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲, 𝗔𝗾𝘂𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗰 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗡𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗮𝗹…

----- DOC | CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/06/29/cvsu-achieves-95-56-passing-rate-in-june-2026-licensure-examination-for-architects/ | 2026-06-29 -----
Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects (LEA), achieving a 95.56% passing rate, with 43 out of 45 examinees successfully earning their licenses—surpassing the national passing rate of 85.08%. 

 Congratulations to our newly licensed architects, the faculty members, and the College of Engineering and Information Technology for this remarkable achievement. Your dedication and pursuit of excellence continue to bring honor to the University. 

 See the full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/june-2026-licensure-examination-architects-results-released-two-2-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawSukAJleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETF6RTVuZWJlNFJBQ29pV1RRc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHrR1A-2c-ZvDaBsCL9oLs8G_RgqRcQ6Jg3yRoMr65708aF6FPhCeoL7B8Z-Z_aem_NvDxBzSAmOR3iu1_8V15eQ

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 1001-1500th in THE Sustainability Impact Ratings | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/06/25/cvsu-ranks-1001-1500th-in-the-sustainability-impact-ratings/ | 2026-06-25 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) improved to 1001-1500 th ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) Sustainability Impact Ratings 2026.  

 The THE Sustainability Impact Ratings assesses the educational institutions' research, stewardship, outreach, and teaching efforts that contribute to delivering the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  

 From its previous 1501+ placement in the 2024 and 2025 THE Impact Rankings, the University also expanded its entries from four to 10 SDG categories in 2026. 

 Based on the figures released through the THE website, CvSU earned its highest scores in SDG 5: gender equality, 46.0-54.1 (401-600 th ); SDG 11: sustainable cities and communities, 48.5-55.4 (301-400 th ); and SDG 16: peace, justice and strong institutions, 54.3-59.1 (301-400 th ).  

 The University also improved its rankings in the following SDG categories:  

 
     SDG 1 (no poverty) 601-800 th 

     SDG 3 (good health and well-being) 1001+ 

     SDG 4 (quality education) 801-1000 th 

     SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth) 601-800 th 

     SDG 14 (life below water) 401+ 

     SDG 15 (life on land) 301-400 th 

     SDG 17 (partnerships for the goals) 1001-1500 th 

 
 CvSU Vice President for Research, Innovation, and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, alongside Commission on Higher Education Commissioner Ricmar, received the Sustainability Award for the University during the Global Sustainable Congress at the Indonesia Convention Exhibition Indonesia Convention Exhibition (ICE), BSD City, Pagedangan, Tangerang Regency, Banten, Indonesia.

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's 38 new CPAs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/06/03/congratulations-to-cvsus-38-new-cpas/ | 2026-06-03 -----
Cavite State University recognizes the hard work, dedication, and perseverance of our examinees as we achieved a 57.58% overall performance rating in the May 2026 Certified Public Accountants Licensure Examination (CPALE). 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 3,004 out of 9,745 (30.85%) passed the CPALE given by the Board of Accountancy in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga in May 2026. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/may-2026-certified-public-accountants-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working?fbclid=IwY2xjawSMS9pleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFSWDZVMkFNdlRPdmNYaDhIc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHiXSecpxW7h0bRZEtapYjtC2yQrR6-Xzk1Jg_zeFjb_EWwsRfHgIobF4lVpD_aem_D9RCZZUFWzbpZrYamjIDdw

----- DOC | Champions of Innovation: Honoring WURI 2026 Contributors | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/05/19/champions-of-innovation-honoring-wuri-2026-contributors/ | 2026-05-19 -----
In recognition of the collective efforts that strengthened Cavite State University's global standing in innovation, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, University President, led the awarding and recognition ceremony for the contributors to the World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI) 2026 on May 14, 2026. 

 The event recognized the writers, evaluators, coordinators, and various contributors whose dedication and collaboration played a vital role in the successful submission of the University's innovative programs and initiatives to the WURI 2026 rankings. 

 Through the collective commitment of the University community, CvSU successfully secured the 217th spot among the Top 500 Global Innovative Universities in the WURI 2026 rankings — a significant achievement that highlights the University's continuing pursuit of innovation, relevance, and transformative education on the international stage. 

 In her message, Dr. Nuestro expressed her gratitude to all contributors for their hard work, creativity, and commitment in showcasing the University's innovative practices and programs. She emphasized that the recognition reflects not only the excellence of individual offices and units, but also the collaborative spirit of the entire CvSU community. 

 

 The recognition ceremony reaffirmed CvSU's commitment to fostering innovation, advancing quality education, and strengthening its presence among globally recognized innovative universities.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Licensed Professional Teachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/05/14/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-licensed-professional-teachers-2/ | 2026-05-14 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) once again proved its excellence in teacher education after achieving remarkable results in the March 2026 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT) for both the Elementary and Secondary Levels. 

 Several CvSU campuses recorded passing rates significantly higher than the national average, earning recognition among the country's top-performing schools. 

 For the Elementary Level, CvSU Main Campus proudly secured a place among the Top 10 performing schools nationwide with an impressive 95.06% passing rate. 

 For the Secondary Level, CvSU Imus Campus ranked among the Top 3 performing schools nationwide after posting an outstanding 98.36% passing rate, while CvSU Silang Campus earned a spot among the Top 7 performing schools with a 96.97% passing rate. 

 Adding to this remarkable achievement, six CvSU graduates emerged as topnotchers in the March 2026 LEPT: 

 Elementary Level: 

 
 Erielle May Y. Rosell – CvSU Main Campus – Top 9 

 Maria Micaella S. Dabu – CvSU Cavite City Campus – Top 9 

 Sunday C. Bernal – CvSU Cavite City Campus – Top 10 

 
 Secondary Level: 

 
 Jane Paula C. Pagulong – CvSU Silang Campus – Top 9 

 Charisch E. Luardo – CvSU General Trias Campus – Top 9 

 Mark Lester V. Almerez – CvSU Carmona Campus – Top 10 

 
 Several campuses also achieved a perfect 100% passing rate, further reaffirming the University's unwavering commitment to academic excellence and quality teacher education. 

 See full results here: PRC Article

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 217th in WURI's top 500 Global Innovative Universities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/05/08/cvsu-ranks-217th-in-wuris-top-500-global-innovative-universities/ | 2026-05-08 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) improved its global ranking to 217th place and placing within the Top 100 in 16 categories in the 2026 World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI). 

 WURI is a ranking system that assesses the societal and industry contributions of higher education institutions (HEIs), with focus on their innovative approaches to education, research, and society. 

 From ranking in two categories in its first WURI entry in 2024, the University is now among the Global Top 50 innovative universities in the following areas: 15th in Inclusive Social Innovation for the Underserved (C6); 18th in Social Impact through Knowledge Transfer (C5); 26th in Ethics and Integrity (A6) and University-Based Entrepreneurial Projects (C7); 38th in Industrial Application (A3); 42nd in Visionary Leadership (B1); 43rd in Interdisciplinary, Convergent, and Integrated Research (C2); and 46th in Crisis Management (A5). 

 CvSU also made it to the Global Top 100 in the following categories: 52nd in AI-Based Teaching and Learning Transformation (C4); 57th in Future-Oriented Responses to Global Uncertainty and Geopolitical Risk (A7); 62nd in Financial Impact-Driven Technology Transfer (C8); 74th in Funding for Sustainability (B5); 89th in Cost-Effectiveness Management (B7) and University Brand and Reputation (B8); 91st in SDG- and ESG-based Responses to Past and Present Global Challenges (A8); and 98th in Digital and AI Transformation in Strategy and Management (B3). 

 This remarkable achievement further strengthens the University's unwavering commitment to innovation and academic excellence by empowering learners, professionals, and stakeholders to create meaningful impact across industries and communities.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers, Master Electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/04/30/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-registered-electrical-engineers-master-electricians/ | 2026-04-30 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers and Master Electricians who successfully passed the April 2026 examinations.  

 The CvSU Main Campus registered an overall performance rating of 57.58% (19/33), while the CCAT Campus posted 75.93% (41/54) in the Registered Electrical Engineers Licensure Examination (REELE). 

 Jan Joseph Belen Lopez also made it to the top eight successful examinees in the REELE with a passing rate of 92.50%. 

 Morevover, the CvSU Main and CCAT campuses both recorded an overall performance rating of 60% in the Registered Master Electricians Licensure Examination (RMELE). 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 3,769 out of 6,556 passed the REELE (57.49% national passing rate) while 493 out of 882 passed the RMELE (35.05% national passing rate) given by the Board of Electrical Engineering in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/april-2026-registered-electrical-engineers-and-registered-master-electricians-licensure?fbclid=IwY2xjawRfcytleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETF3ZHhSdnd2UnQyZFpaN1dlc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHg0dE01SI7WTwoNU_iVKmBXmmpr52FDH5ohiTYUuMZBax9z92vsd5ub7tsVe_aem_c3pQFBToERreRESbGejO9Q

----- DOC | CvSU awarded as one of DENR-EMB's top eco-friendly schools | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/04/23/cvsu-awarded-as-one-of-denr-embs-top-eco-friendly-schools/ | 2026-04-23 -----
Cavite State University's (CvSU) exemplary commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship has been recognized during the 2025 National Search for Sustainable and Eco-friendly Schools (NSSEFS) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources – Environmental Management Bureau (DENR – EMB). 

 This nationwide search highlights the sustainable and eco-friendly programs that are integrated into educational institutions' operations, curriculum, and student activities. It also aims to encourage the active and sustained participation of students, faculty members, and administrators in environmental issues, fostering an in-depth understanding and behavioral change within the academic community.  

 OIC Assistant Secretary for Environment and concurrent EMB Director Jacqueline A. Caancan, CESO III and EMB CALABARZON Regional Director Robert Angelo Metin led the national awarding ceremonies held on April 22, 2026 at Seda Vertis North Hotel in Quezon City.  

 CvSU officials received the prestigious Recognition of Excellence Award (College Category), Luntiang Puso Sustainability Award (Champion – College Category), and Water Leadership Award (College Category), together with PhP100,000 cash prize and electronic devices for the University.  

 The Water Leadership Award is given to educational institutions that have demonstrated exceptional commitment to water conservation and management as integrated in their school operations. The selection for this award is based on established water-saving programs, rainwater harvesting initiatives, wastewater treatment or recycling efforts, and other creative solutions for water management. Moreover, the initiatives are judged based on program plans and implementation including monitoring and evaluation, economic sustainability, presence of environmental partners and linkages, and gender equality and social inclusion.   

 Meanwhile, the Luntiang Puso Sustainability Champion Award is a special recognition that highlights the “heart” of the NSSEFS, specifically conferred upon the institution that achieved the highest overall rating among the top five finalists per category.  

 “The recognition is a testament to the exemplary leadership and coordination of school officials, led by Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, President of Cavite State University, together with For. Junser P. Magpantay, NSSEFS Overall Coordinator, whose dedication and vision were instrumental in steering the university toward this distinguished achievement. CvSU's accomplishment highlights its strong commitment to promoting sustainability and environmental awareness within its academic community—principles that EMB Calabarzon consistently advances throughout the region,” EMB CALABARZON said in its social media post.

----- DOC | CvSU produces 42 new licensed Civil Engineers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/04/13/cvsu-produces-42-new-licensed-civil-engineers/ | 2026-04-13 -----
Cavite State University recorded a 46.15% (42/91) overall performance rating in the March 2026 Civil Engineers Licensure Examination. 

 The Professional Regulation Commission announced that 6,438 out of 18,370 examinees passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Civil Engineering in 19 testing centers in the country. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/march-2026-civil-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-five-5-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawRJDEtleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETF1cUd2T1NIZWc0Sm16VUdhc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHhqwasfrbK-C8F-r2ksrpQi9MJzjhxNDJE2e0XnO_uGHL-J2HVmJO-2Qqo-g_aem_6dH2UBTtI9QzkvgPZLEieA

----- DOC | 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗧𝘄𝗼 (𝟮) 𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗦𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗼𝗿 𝗥𝗲𝗽𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗮𝘁𝗶𝘃𝗲𝘀 (𝗣𝗦𝗥) 𝘁𝗼 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗚𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗕𝗼𝗮𝗿𝗱 (Extended) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/25/%f0%9d%97%a6%f0%9d%97%b2%f0%9d%97%ae%f0%9d%97%bf%f0%9d%97%b0%f0%9d%97%b5-%f0%9d%97%b3%f0%9d%97%bc%f0%9d%97%bf-%f0%9d%97%a7%f0%9d%98%84%f0%9d%97%bc-%f0%9d%9f%ae-%f0%9d%97%a3%f0%9d%97%bf%f0%9d%97%b6/ | 2026-03-25 -----
𝐂𝐀𝐋𝐋 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐍𝐎𝐌𝐈𝐍𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍𝐒 𝐄𝐗𝐓𝐄𝐍𝐃𝐄𝐃!

 
 The Cavite State University Board of Regents announces the 𝗲𝘅𝘁𝗲𝗻𝘀𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗱𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗲 for the 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗧𝘄𝗼 (𝟮) 𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗦𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗼𝗿 𝗥𝗲𝗽𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗮𝘁𝗶𝘃𝗲𝘀 (𝗣𝗦𝗥) 𝘁𝗼 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗚𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗕𝗼𝗮𝗿𝗱.

 
 New deadline for the submission of application/nomination documents: 𝗔𝗽𝗿𝗶𝗹 𝟭𝟯, 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟲 | 𝟲:𝟬𝟬 𝗣𝗠

 
 Prescribed forms may be secured from the Office of the Board Secretary, 2nd Floor, Administration Building, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite, or accessed through the following link: https://drive.google.com/…/1lolymWYnW7UK7REUlKEBUdNoxfH… 

 
 Application/Nomination letter should be addressed to:

 ASSO. PROF. RONAN M. CAJIGAL

 Chairperson, CvSU Search Committee for Private Sector Representatives

 Thru:

 MS. CATHERINE J. QUIÑONES

 Secretary of the CvSU Board of Regents 2nd Floor, Administration Building

 Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite

 Email: obs@cvsu.edu.ph

 
 𝗘𝗹𝗶𝗴𝗶𝗯𝗶𝗹𝗶𝘁𝘆 𝗥𝗲𝗾𝘂𝗶𝗿𝗲𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁𝘀

 a. Be a Filipino citizen and of legal age;

 b. From an industry, business, or profession preferably related to the SUC's charter or mandate;

 c. Have at least five (5) years of employment, business, or practice of profession in the private sector;

 d. Be domiciled in or a resident for at least two (2) years of the city or province where the SUC or its campuses are located;

 e. Not connected with the SUC concerned or other government agencies and instrumentalities in any manner, for one (1) year immediately prior to his or her nomination to the PSR position;

 f. Not currently employed or appointed to any position in the government (local, national, including government-owned and controlled corporations), be it full time or part time, at the time of nomination for the PSR position;

 g. Not related to any member of the present Board or their duly-authorized representatives, within fourth civil degree of consanguinity or affinity; and,

 h. Not have been a candidate who lost in any national or local election, except for barangay elections, within one (1) year after such election.

 
 𝗗𝗼𝗰𝘂𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗮𝗿𝘆 𝗥𝗲𝗾𝘂𝗶𝗿𝗲𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁𝘀

 a. Duly notarized application or nomination (with the conforme of the Nominee);

 b. Duly accomplished, computerized and notarized Personal Data Sheet (CSC Form 212);

 c. Certificate of Employment stating Nominee's present position in the private sector related to the industry, business or profession related to the SUC's charter or mandate;

 d. Service Record of Nominees who have been employed in the government at any point;

 e. NBI Clearance;

 f. Certification of No Connection with SUC the Nominee is applying or nominated to;

 g. Signed Commitment and Availability of the Nominee to serve as PSR;

 h. Signed Conforme to the Conditions of PSR as provided in Section 14; and,

 i. Other documents as may be required by the SUC GB.

 
 𝗦𝗲𝗹𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗖𝗿𝗶𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗶𝗮 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗖𝗮𝗻𝗱𝗶𝗱𝗮𝘁𝗲𝘀

 a. Prestige and prominence of the applicant or nominee

 b. Past and current membership in civic, social, religious, and professional organizations

 c. Past and current achievements in the field of specialization

 d. Knowledge, expertise, depth, and breadth of experience and business acumen

----- DOC | CvSU receives 5th IPOPHL Platinum, Palladium awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/25/cvsu-receives-5th-ipophl-platinum-palladium-awards/ | 2026-03-25 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Innovations and Technology Support Office (ITSO), was honored with its fifth Platinum Award and first Palladium Award from the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL)   during the ITSO Presidents' Summit and General Assembly held on March 25, 2026, at the Diversion 21 Hotel in Iloilo City. 

 The University is the first higher education institution in the Southern Tagalog Region to receive the Palladium Award — the highest honor bestowed by the IPOPHL to top-performing ITSOs. This award recognizes those that have consistently demonstrated excellence, specifically by qualifying for the Platinum Award for five consecutive years or by securing a patent in a foreign country. 

 During the event, CvSU was also awarded a special citation for patents and trademarks. 

 The awarding was attended by CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research, Innovation and Extension; Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, Director of Knowledge Management Center (KMC); Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Head of Intellectual Property and Technology Management Division and ITSO Manager; Mr. Gerald T. Viado, ITSO Technical staff; and Ms. Lecel Mojica, Executive Assistant of the University President. 

 With this year's theme “15 years of Strengthening the Philippine TISCs: Innovation and Creativity Toward Sustainable Technology Transfer,” the ITSO Presidents' Summit is a high-level gathering for Presidents and institutional heads intended to highlight leadership, strategic direction, and strengthened partnership with IPOPHL. 

 This activity also recognizes ITSOs with exemplary contributions to innovation, intellectual property (IP) filings, and technology transfer. 

 In 2015, CvSU's ITSO officially became part of the IPOPHL network. In 2017, the ITSO was institutionalized and established as a dedicated unit within the university's KMC. 

 The CvSU ITSO has evolved significantly since its establishment, becoming a key driver of IP and innovation at the University, culminating in its repeated receipt of the highest national awards. 

 Through these years, the University's ITSO has demonstrated a commitment to fostering innovation and protecting intellectual property, consistently receiving national recognition from the IPOPHL for its performance and output. The office works closely with the KMC to manage intellectual property and facilitate technology transfer. (with report from the Knowledge Management Center)

----- DOC | CvSU recognized in 39th AACCUP Nat'l Conference and GA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/25/cvsu-recognized-in-39th-aaccup-natl-conference-and-ga/ | 2026-03-25 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) community celebrates yet another remarkable achievement as one of the top performing institutions recognized by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc. 

 AACCUP recognized CvSU's commitment to quality assurance and academic excellence for achieving Institutional Accreditation (Level III Accredited Status), and as second top performing state university with the highest number of Level III accredited programs. 

 CvSU officials led by President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro received the plaques of recognition for the University during the awarding ceremony at the 39 th AACCUP National Conference and General Assembly held at the Century Park Hotel in Malate, Manila on March 24, 2026. 

 This achievement affirms our dedication to advancing excellence in education and providing quality service to the communities we serve.

----- DOC | CvSU produces new licensed Electronics Engineers, Electronics Technicians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/25/cvsu-produces-new-licensed-electronics-engineers-electronics-technicians/ | 2026-03-25 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) produced 23 newly licensed Electronics Engineers and Electronics Technicians.

 Achieving an 82.14% overall passing percentage, CvSU ranked seventh in the list of top performing schools (with 20 or more examinees) in the March 2026 Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination (EELE) with a national passing rate of 61.62%.

 We also take pride in the success of Ms. Pearl Anne T. Richards as one of the third highest placers in the March 2026 Electronics Technicians Licensure Examination (ETLE) after garnering a 92% passing rate.

 CvSU recorded an 88% overall performance rating in the ETLE with a national passing rate of 78.16%.

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 1,692 out of 2,746 examinees passed the EELE, while 1,907 out of 2,440 hurdled the ETLE given by the Board of Electronics Engineering in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga in March 2026.

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/march-2026-electronics-engineers-and-electronics-technicians-licensure-examinations-results?fbclid=IwY2xjawQv-C1leHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFtVnVkREtSZjdDc09lT0VFc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHo97g9k555dc6O6fRm-H7TrsqGYtej4Og9LvNJk_0GBB3d8YB6bMGRpn6s60_aem_mRnhbnE_wHJXi4QaoZksTA

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 197th in 2026 HE Higher Education Ranking | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/24/cvsu-ranks-197th-in-2026-he-higher-education-ranking/ | 2026-03-24 -----
Cavite State University proudly celebrates its inclusion in the 2026 HE Higher Education Ranking, achieving the 197th position globally. 

 This recognition reflects the University's unwavering commitment to academic excellence, research innovation, and quality education. It stands as a testament to the collective efforts of our administrators, faculty, staff, students, and partners in advancing knowledge and fostering meaningful societal impact. 

 The ranking acknowledges institutions that demonstrate outstanding performance in upholding high standards in education and research, as well as in contributing to global innovation and development. 

 As we continue our journey toward becoming a Premier Global University, this milestone inspires us to further strengthen our programs, expand our global engagement, and sustain excellence across all areas of operation. 

 Together, we ASCEND!

----- DOC | CvSU turns over seagrass research data to DENR, LGU Maragondon | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/24/cvsu-turns-over-seagrass-research-data-to-denr-lgu-maragondon/ | 2026-03-24 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Research Center and the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR) officially turned over the seagrass data of Cavite to local government and environment officials, reflecting its commitment to promote data-driven policy making by providing scientific data through research to its stakeholders. 

 CvSU officials led the turnover of the results of the University's seagrass research studies to the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) – Provincial Environment and Natural Resources Office (PENRO) Cavite and the Local Government Unit (LGU) of Maragondon during a ceremony themed “Rooted in Data, Safeguarding Cavite's Seagrass Ecosystem” held at the University Interdisciplinary Research Building, March 19, 2026. 

 This undertaking also highlighted the importance of partnerships among universities, national agencies, and local governments in addressing environmental issues and challenges. 

 In a special message, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, University President, underscored the University's pivotal role in the formulation of sustainable policies. 

 Mr. Glenn Bryan A. Creencia, CvSU's designated Faculty Researcher, then presented the outcomes of the seagrass research initiatives undertaken by the University. Seagrasses provide various ecosystem services, including food and habitat for many organisms. Additionally, they play a crucial role in oxygen production and carbon sequestration, making them essential in mitigating climate change. 

 Mr. Creencia rediscovered the last seagrass ecosystem of Cavite in February 2020. According to him, there are seven seagrass species present in the coastal waters of Maragondon. Moreover, the University also initiated conservation efforts through ex-situ seagrass propagation and transplantation. 

 In response, Ms. Judaline A. Fabro, Assistant Management Services Division Chief and in-charge of the Office of DENR-PENRO Cavite, and Mr. Noah M. Caasi, Municipal Administrator of LGU Maragondon, delivered their pledge of acceptance and commitment to the utilization of these research outputs in the development of their data-driven policies.  (with report from CAFENR and Research Center)

----- DOC | CvSU is top performing school in February 2026 licensure exam for Criminologists | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/16/cvsu-is-top-performing-school-in-february-2026-licensure-exam-for-criminologists/ | 2026-03-16 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) strongly secures its position as the top performing school in the February 2026 Criminologist Licensure Examination. 

 The CvSU Main Campus achieved an outstanding 99.25% passing rate (132 out of 133 examinees) in the category of schools with 101 to 199 examinees and at least an 80% passing rate. 

 Meanwhile, the CvSU Bacoor Campus also ranked Top 1 with a 100% passing rate (63 out of 63 examinees) in the category of schools with 51 to 100 examinees and at least an 80% passing rate. 

 This achievement reflects the University's commitment, perseverance, and dedication to academic excellence and the collective effort of its students, faculty, and administrators. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/february-2026-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-twenty-six-26-working

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes Ukrainian Ambassador to PH Yuliia Fediv | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/16/cvsu-welcomes-ukrainian-ambassador-to-ph-yuliia-fediv/ | 2026-03-16 -----
Strengthening global connections and shared aspirations. 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) held a courtesy call meeting with H.E. Fediv Yuliia Oleksandrivna, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Ukraine to the Philippines, March 11, 2026. 

 Her visit marked a meaningful moment for the International Studies community as she served as the Guest Speaker for the 14th International Studies Founding Anniversary themed “Excellence Written with Purpose in Global Pathways.” 

 This gathering highlighted the University's commitment to fostering global dialogue, diplomacy, and academic excellence. 

 Present during the courtesy call meeting were key University officials, including Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services; Dr. Cristina M. Signo, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research, Innovation and Extension; and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation. 

 Also joining the meeting were Assoc. Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director of International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office (ILCLO), and Ms. Janice E. Paiton, representative of College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies (CEMDS), together with the faculty and staff of the Department of Development Studies and students from the International Studies Students Association. 

 CvSU extends its sincere gratitude to Ambassador Fediv for sharing her time, insights, and inspiring perspective with the students and faculty. Organized by the International Studies Students' Association (ISSA) – Academic Organization, this celebration continues to strengthen the University's dedication to shaping future leaders in international affairs. (with reports from ILCLO, CEMDS, and ISSA)

----- DOC | CvSU produces 73 newly registered Medical Technologists | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/12/cvsu-produces-73-newly-registered-medical-technologists/ | 2026-03-12 -----
Cavite State University posted a 97.33% (73/75) overall performance rating in the March 2026 Medical Technologists Licensure Examination with a national passing rate of 84.17%.  

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 7,838 out of 9,317 examinees hurdled the said examination given by the Board of Medical Technology in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao and Zamboanga.  

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/march-2026-medical-technologists-licensure-examination-results-released-three-3-working?fbclid=IwY2xjawQe1ulleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFlTEJjdU9uOWJmaE5mdkdQc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHvz-YWtXijSPl5WO-hteYDboZCpzZmGecXJdD7w5NevEZsERdmF-ttmdGsxN_aem_ecOqYAQM0We2F_pZ8AmwIA

----- DOC | CvSU academic programs receive AACCUP accreditation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/11/cvsu-academic-programs-receive-aaccup-accreditation/ | 2026-03-11 -----
Several academic programs being offered at Cavite State University's (CvSU) main and satellite campuses received accreditation from the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc. 

 Ten curricular programs from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR); CCAT (Rosario) Campus; College of Nursing (CON); Carmona Campus; Cavite City Campus; General Trias Campus; and College of Advanced and Professional Studies (CAPS) underwent assessment by AACCUP accreditors.  

 Level IV Re-accredited:  

 
 BS Food Technology (CAFENR)  

 BS Industrial Technology (CCAT Campus)  

 
 Level III Re-accredited:  

 
 BS Medical Technology (CON)  

 BS Business Administration (Carmona Campus)  

 BS Computer Science (Carmona Campus)  

 BS Information Technology (Cavite City Campus)  

 BS Business Administration (CCAT Campus)  

 
 Level I Accredited:  

 
 BS Hospitality Management (GenTri Campus)  

 Bachelor of Technical Vocational Teacher Education (CCAT Campus)  

 
 Candidate Status:  

 
 MS Food Science (CAFENR and CAPS)

----- DOC | CvSU gets AACCUP Level III Institutional Accreditation status | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/03/11/cvsu-gets-aaccup-level-iii-institutional-accreditation-status/ | 2026-03-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) has been officially conferred with Institutional Accreditation (IA) Level III certification during the 2nd National Network of Quality Assurance Agencies (NNQAA), Inc. Quality Assurance Summit and Conferment Ceremony 2026, March 5-7, 2026, at the Heritage Hotel Manila in Pasay City.   

 The said award came after the University satisfactorily met the prescribed IA standards following a technical review and validation visit conducted by a team of evaluators from the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc. on November 17-19, 2025.   

 Accepting the certification are University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and Quality Assurance Director Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, marking a significant milestone and a collective victory for the entire CvSU community with its first institutional accreditation.  

 Through this conferment, CvSU reaffirms its dedication to unwavering excellence and high standards across all institutional pillars: governance, academic instruction, research, community extension, and student services. 

 The comprehensive IA evaluation process assesses higher education institutions based on their effectiveness and compliance with established quality assurance requirements in nine key areas: (Area I) Governance and Management; (Area II) Teaching, Learning and Evaluation; (Area III) Faculty and Staff; (Area IV) Research; (Area V) Extension, Consultancy and Linkages; (Area VI) Support to Students; (Area VII) Library; (Area VIII) Infrastructure and other Learning Resources; and (Area IX) Quality Assurance Culture.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its newly licensed Master Plumbers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/02/26/cvsu-congratulates-its-newly-licensed-master-plumbers/ | 2026-02-26 -----
Cavite State University posted an 83.33% overall performance rating (10/12), making it to the top 10 performing schools in the February 2026 Master Plumbers Licensure Examination with a national passing rate of 61.76%. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 2,030 out of 3,287 examinees passed the licensure examination given by the Master Plumbers Licensure Examination given by the Board for Master Plumbers in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, and Puerto Princesa City, Palawan. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/february-2026-master-plumbers-licensure-examination-results-released-three-3-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawQMYA5leHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETJjU3hqbWxaUllxWndUTEtFc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHtPX3JtGEQvmdK146VA_Zl3CtO7pAW-K6cd5gF6Ux6E22NRdfmGD7_FilHod_aem_WLowP2ZIaMYE7BCIBv_r5A

----- DOC | CvSU conducts public forum for ECC amendment | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/02/11/cvsu-conducts-public-forum-for-ecc-amendment/ | 2026-02-11 -----
As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process, Cavite State University (CvSU) conducted a public forum for the amendment of its Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) conditions, February 9, 2026, at the SM Rolle Hall.  

 During the public forum, CvSU, in coordination with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources – Environmental Management Bureau (DENR – EMB) CALABARZON, gathered community members, local government units, non-government organizations, and other stakeholders to discuss the proposed amendments and the status of the University's compliance with its ECC conditions. 

 The forum also provided a venue for CvSU and participating stakeholders to raise their concerns, identify issues, and recommend measures to address the impacts of the University's operations and ensure the protection and conservation of natural resources.  

 This undertaking emphasized the importance of public participation as a core component of the EIA process – promoting transparency, accountability, and informed decision making in ensuring the institution's compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 

 The DENR – EMB CALABARZON issued an ECC to CvSU on March 20, 2018 for the Don Severino de las Alas Campus in Brgy. Bancod, Indang, Cavite.  

 The EIA study for CvSU was led by Prof. Noel A. Sedigo as the Project Leader/Study Leader for Land, Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio as the Study Leader for People, Dr. Amyel Dale L. Cero as the Study Leader for Water, and Ms. Ailene H. Calamlam as Study Leader for Air. The team is also supported by research assistants including Mr. Christian Dave M. Mendoza, Mr. Daeniel Zarene P. Mojica, Mr. John Daniel V. Cap-atan, Mr. Ayman S. Catenza, and Ms. Maria Trisha A. Cañete.

----- DOC | CvSU earns 3 QS Stars rating | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/02/10/cvsu-earns-3-qs-stars-rating/ | 2026-02-10 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) earned a three-star rating from Qacquarelli Symonds (QS) 2025, a globally recognized university rating system that evaluates institutions against international standards. 

 A three-star QS rating demonstrates an institution's strong overall performance, showing solid quality across teaching, facilities, employability, governance, and other key areas, with clear potential for further growth on the global stage. 

 Guided by CvSU ASCEND – Advancing Sustained Change and Excellence for National Development – the University earned the following ratings across key areas of global assessment: 

 
 Teaching – ⭐⭐⭐  

 Academic Development – ⭐⭐⭐  

 Facilities – ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐  

 Employability – ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐  

 Good Governance – ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐  

 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion – ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐  

 Social Impact – ⭐⭐  

 Global Engagement – ⭐⭐  

 Education and Training – ⭐⭐  

 
 These results highlight CvSU's strength in instructional quality, governance, learning environments, and graduate outcomes, while reinforcing its commitment to inclusive growth, societal impact, and continuous improvement.

----- DOC | Employees, students, partners recognized during CvSU@120 celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/02/10/employees-students-partners-recognized-during-cvsu120-celebration/ | 2026-02-10 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) celebrated academic excellence, exceptional public service, and strengthened collaborative partnerships for development during the Gawad Laya at Diwa and Partners' Recognition Day, January 28, at the International Convention Center. 

 As one of the highlights of the CvSU's 120th founding anniversary celebration, CvSU annually recognizes students, employees, retirees, organizational units, administrators, and partner agencies who demonstrated excellence, service, and meaningful achievements that help empower lives and communities.  

 “With the theme 'ASCEND with Truth, Integrity, Excellence, and Service: The Heart of CvSU's 120-Year Legacy,' we are reminded that our University's story is not measured by time alone, but by the values we uphold, the lives we transform, and the service we render to society,” said CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro in her message.  

 In his keynote speech, Bacoor City Mayor Strike B. Revilla emphasized that CvSU's 120 years of truth, integrity, excellence, and service is no small feat. 

 “Sa loob ng mahigit isang siglo, napatunayan ng CvSU na ang tunay na edukasyon ay hindi lamang tungkol sa paglikha ng mga propesyonal, kundi sa paghubog ng mga liders at mamamayan na may malasakit sa ating bayan,” Mayor Revilla said. 

 “Today, we celebrate not only the past, but the future. Ang Cavite State University ay patuloy na magiging ilaw ng kaalaman, haligi ng integridad, at tahanan ng mga bagong bayani ng bayan,” Mayor Revilla added. 

 University officials along with Mayor Revilla led in recognizing the employees and retirees who dedicated years of loyal service to CvSU, and demonstrated their perseverance and selfless commitment to go above and beyond the call of duty.  

 CvSU also honored its partner agencies whose support and collaboration has strengthened the institution's instruction, research, extension, and innovation initiatives. The awardees include Commission on Population and Development CALABARZON, Municipality of Alfonso, Municipality of Amadeo, National Grid Corporation of the Philippines, Philippine Coconut Authority, Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University, University of the Philippines Manila, Pasay Harbor City Corporation, Verde Carbon Capture Inc., and Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources IV-A. 

 The top performing colleges and campuses recognized by the Professional Regulation Commission as well as CvSU's board topnotchers also took the spotlight – affirming the University's excellence in agriculture, social work, medical technology, criminology, veterinary medicine, and teacher education.  

 Meanwhile, Mr. Joseph Luke Emmanuel M. Ongliongco, a fourth year Bachelor of Science in Psychology student from the Bacoor Campus and currently the Deputy Student Regent of the Federation of Central Student Government, received the Most Outstanding Student of the Year award for consistently demonstrating exceptional academic and leadership skills, serving as role model to his fellow students.  

 Lastly, the CvSU Gawad Laya at Diwa Program PRAISE Awards honored distinguished faculty members, non-teaching employees, administrators, and organizational units that demonstrated strategic leadership, academic excellence, exemplary dedication to work, and significant contributions that create lasting impact to the University and the communities it serves: 

 Tanglaw ng Mag-aaral Award (Faculty of the Year Award) 

 Mr. Antonino Jose L. Bayson 

 Dangal ng CvSU Award (Exemplary Behavior Award) 

 Dr. Regene G. Hernandez 

 Kabalikat Award (Employee of the Year Award) 

 Engr. Mary Joyce P. Alcazar 

 Galing ng Cvsu Award (Model Employee of the Year Award) 

 Dr. Willie C. Buclatin 

 Mananaliksik ng CvSU Award (Researcher of the Year Award) 

 Engr. Al Eugene Torres 

 Husay ng CvSU Award (Best Organizational Unit Award) 

 Academic Cluster: Carmona Campus 

 Non-Academic Cluster: Gender and Development Resource Center 

 Pinakamaayos na Yunit Award (Most Organized Unit) 

 Academic Cluster: CvSU Cavite City Campus 

 Non-Academic Cluster: Library Services Office 

 Gabay ng CvSU Award (Administrator of the Year Award) 

 Dr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes

----- DOC | CvSU marks 120th founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/02/02/cvsu-marks-120th-founding-anniversary/ | 2026-02-02 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) community gathered to commemorate the institution's 120 years of legacy of resilience – highlighting its mission to continuously empower more lives and communities from here and beyond. 

 Centered on the theme “ASCEND with Truth, Integrity, Excellence, and Service: The Heart of CvSU's 120-year Legacy,” University officials, faculty members, students, alumni, partners, and stakeholders come together in various activities slated on January 28-29, 2026. 

 The celebration kicked off with the ecumenical thanksgiving mass and the traditional wreath laying ceremony led by officials and the heirs of Don Severino de las Alas – an educator, public servant, and philanthropist who donated a portion of his land for the establishment of an intermediate school now known as CvSU. 

 During the opening program, CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro delivered her first State of the University Address where she highlighted the University's accomplishments and continuing efforts to achieve its CvSU ASCEND: 2025-2028 Strategic Framework focusing on transformational leadership, competent and committed workforce, administrative efficiency, and financial sustainability.  

 The 2025 goal for Institutional Transformation and Recognition is part of the four-year IDEAL Plan: Inclusive and Accessible Education; Dynamic and Competitive Research and Innovation; Empowered Communities and Stronger Partnership; Accountable and Client-Centered Governance; and Long-Lasting Sustainable Resource Generation.  

 In her message, Dr. Nuestro emphasized how the celebration affirms the University's enduring commitment to quality education and nation-building guided by its core values of Truth, Integrity, Excellence, and Service.  

 “For 120 years, CvSU has stood as a beacon of knowledge and service, empowering individuals and strengthening society. As we look back with gratitude and forward with determination, may this celebration remind us that CvSU's true legacy lies in the lives it has touched,” Dr. Nuestro said.  

 The 120th Founding Anniversary celebration also honored the notable contributions and unwavering commitment to academic excellence and public service of CvSU employees, students, retirees, and partner agencies during the annual Gawad Laya at Diwa and Partners' Recognition Day. 

 Meanwhile, as part of the efforts to promote employees' wellness and engagement, the academic and non-academic staff from the main and satellite campuses participated in the Employees' Star Olympics, zumba session, wellness day activities, and mini-concert.  

 Guests, students, and employees were also welcomed to the CvSU Agri-Eco Tourism Park, CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum, and other University sites during the Open House Visit. 

 Lastly, the members of the Administrative Council led the blessing of newly-constructed school buildings including the Boys' Dormitory; the Food Processing Building of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources; and the STAR Building.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Licensed Architects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/01/28/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-licensed-architects-2/ | 2026-01-28 -----
Cavite State University posted a 100% passing rate in the January 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects (LEA). 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 1,998 out of 2,434 examinees passed the LEA held in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/january-2026-licensure-examination-architects-results-released-three-3-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawPmNU1leHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFjd2pXTGdXbkV4WnY3Z1M0c3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHiZE6H-AYZFsrgJzsBIKJXoJIs6yX9sVvnp9lNU_CY6AdCjxwL0lRcqjBysf_aem_66r4AWBI_8fZEqpPONSvLg

----- DOC | ESC orients student leaders on CvSU's volunteerism, service program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/01/27/esc-orients-student-leaders-on-cvsus-volunteerism-service-program/ | 2026-01-27 -----
Aimed at ensuring broad participation and collaboration across Cavite State University (CvSU), the Extension Services Center (ESC) conducted an orientation for student leaders on the Leaders Integrating Networks for General Aid Preparedness (LINGAP CvSU), January 8, at the Technology Demonstration Farm Training Hall. 

 Attended by representatives from various academic and non-academic student organizations at the Main Campus, the activity, held in two batches, provided the participants with an overview of LINGAP CvSU as the University's centralized hub for volunteerism and service initiatives. 

 In line with the institution's support to inclusive and sustainable development, the establishment of LINGAP CvSU has strengthened the University's efforts to respond more effectively to the needs of the communities. 

 According to the ESC, the community-led efforts, including outreach programs, relief-giving activities, educational workshops, clean-up drives, and health fairs, are now coordinated under the LINGAP CvSU program.  

 The orientation, led by Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, Director of ESC, and Engr. Arnelyn S. Romilla, Head of the Training Courseware and Development Division, highlighted the efforts to strengthen collaboration among students, reinforcing CvSU's commitment to social responsibility and civic engagement. (with report and photos from the ESC)

----- DOC | 4th International Conference on WELA 2026 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/blog/2026/01/06/4th-international-conference-on-wela-2026/ | 2026-01-06 -----
[hurrytimer id=”23142″]

 
 FINAL CALL FOR ABSTRACTS | 𝟰𝘁𝗵 𝗜𝗻𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻𝗮𝗹 𝗖𝗼𝗻𝗳𝗲𝗿𝗲𝗻𝗰𝗲 𝗼𝗻 𝗪𝗼𝗺𝗲𝗻 𝗘𝗺𝗽𝗼𝘄𝗲𝗿𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗟𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗽 𝗶𝗻 𝗔𝗴𝗿𝗶𝗰𝘂𝗹𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲, 𝗔𝗾𝘂𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗰 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗡𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗮𝗹 𝗥𝗲𝘀𝗼𝘂𝗿𝗰𝗲𝘀 (𝗪𝗘𝗟𝗔 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟲) 𝘄𝗶𝘁𝗵 𝗣𝗔𝗦𝗨𝗖 𝗲𝗻𝗱𝗼𝗿𝘀𝗲𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁, 𝗔𝗱𝘃𝗶𝘀𝗼𝗿𝘆 𝗡𝗼. 𝟬𝟬𝟲, 𝘀. 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟲

 𝗧𝗢𝗗𝗔𝗬 𝗜𝗦 𝗧𝗛𝗘 𝗟𝗔𝗦𝗧 𝗗𝗔𝗬 𝗢𝗙 𝗦𝗨𝗕𝗠𝗜𝗦𝗦𝗜𝗢𝗡 𝗢𝗙 𝗔𝗕𝗦𝗧𝗥𝗔𝗖𝗧𝗦, 𝗠𝗔𝗥𝗖𝗛 𝟱, 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟲

 𝗦𝗨𝗕𝗠𝗜𝗧 𝗬𝗢𝗨𝗥 𝗔𝗕𝗦𝗧𝗥𝗔𝗖𝗧𝗦 𝗡𝗢𝗪 ! 

 𝗗𝗼 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗵𝗮𝘃𝗲 𝗮 𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵 𝗼𝗻 𝗮𝗴𝗿𝗶𝗰𝘂𝗹𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲, 𝗮𝗾𝘂𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗰 𝗼𝗿 𝗻𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗮𝗹 𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗼𝘂𝗿𝗰𝗲𝘀 (𝗔𝗔𝗡𝗥) 𝘄𝗶𝘁𝗵 𝗮 𝗦𝗘𝗫-𝗗𝗜𝗦𝗔𝗚𝗚𝗥𝗘𝗚𝗔𝗧𝗘𝗗 𝗗𝗔𝗧𝗔?

 This is your opportunity to present your work on an international stage where research informs policy, innovation drives impact, and advances women's leadership in AANR.

 Conference subthemes:

 Climate-Smart & Resilient Practices

 Circular Economy & Waste Valorization

 Digital Transformation

 Green & Blue Economies

 Capacity Building & Policy Reform

 𝗥𝗲𝗴𝗶𝘀𝘁𝗲𝗿 𝗻𝗼𝘄: bit.ly/WELA2026Registration 

 Don't miss the chance to present your work at one of the most highly anticipated international conferences on gender in AANR….

 The WELA 2026 will be held at the scenic Cavite State University International Convention Center on March 17-19, 2026.

 The deadline of submission of abstracts is until March 5, 2026.

 You may access the conference briefer through this link: https://bit.ly/WELA2026- Briefer 

 Inclusions: The registration fee covers the conference kit and meals for three (3) days, consisting of morning snacks, lunch, afternoon snacks, and dinner. Accommodation is not included.

 𝗕𝗲 𝗽𝗮𝗿𝘁 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝗶𝗺𝗽𝗼𝗿𝘁𝗮𝗻𝘁 𝗴𝗹𝗼𝗯 𝗮𝗹 𝗰𝗼𝗻𝘃𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻, 𝘀𝗲𝗲 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗮𝘁 𝗪𝗘 𝗟𝗔 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟲!

 Stay tuned for more updates!

 For more details kindly reach us at wela2026@cvsu.edu.ph or you may follow us on Facebook at @CvSUGADResourceCenter

 #WELA2026

----- DOC | SDG | https://cvsu.edu.ph/sdg/ | 2026-06-15 -----
Download CvSU Sustainability Report 2025 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 REconnections
 
 

 
 
 
 Volume Date SDG 

 
 
 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 6 JUNE, 2026 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 5 MAY, 2026 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 4 APRIL, 2026 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 3 MARCH, 2026 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 2 FEBRUARY, 2026 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 1 JANUARY, 2026 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 12 DECEMBER, 2025 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 11 NOVEMBER, 2025 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 10 OCTOBER, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 9 SEPTEMBER, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 8 AUGUST, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 7 JULY, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 6 JUNE, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 5 MAY, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 4 APRIL, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 3 MARCH, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 2 FEBRUARY, 2025 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 1 JANUARY, 2025 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 12 DECEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 11 NOVEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 10 OCTOBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 9 SEPTEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 8 AUGUST, 2024 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 7 JULY, 2024 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 6 JUNE, 2024         

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 5 MAY, 2024        

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 4 APRIL, 2024            

 

 
 
 

 
 Visit R & E Updates
 
 

 
 
 SDG Related News and Announcements

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU ranks 217th in WURI's top 500 Global Innovative Universities 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved its global ranking to 217th place and placing within the Top 100 in 16 categories in the 2026 World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI).

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU GFPS crafts Gender and Development Agenda 2026 – 2031 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), strengthened the institutionalization of Gender and Development (GAD) by conducting a three-day seminar-workshop on the GAD Agenda on January 20–22, 2026, at View Park Hotel, Tagaytay City.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU holds Women in Leadership Forum in celebration of inclusive governance 
 

 

 

 

 The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), successfully conducted the Women in Leadership Forum on September 18, 2025, at the S.M. Rolle Hall, CvSU, Indang Cavite, with simultaneous livestreaming via Facebook.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU joins global sustainability leaders in 2025 THE Impact Rankings 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) has once again earned international recognition as it ranked 1501+ among 2,318 higher education institutions (HEIs) assessed globally in the 2025 Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9th Gender and Development Research Conference: A Leap Forward 
 

 

 

 

 To advance gender equity in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), in collaboration with the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension (OVPRE), successfully conducted the 9th Gender and Development (GAD) Research Conference with the theme “Future-Forward Gender Equity: Shaping Opportunities and Challenges Together” on September 3, 2024, at the International Convention (ICON) Center, CvSU, Indang, Cavite as part of the Futures Thinking Week Research Symposium.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU ranks 1501+ in 2024 THE Impact Rankings 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) ranks 1501+ among the educational institutions worldwide in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings for 2024.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Empowering Change: Highlights from the 8th GAD Research Conference 
 

 

 

 

 In bold stride towards advancing gender equality and inclusive societies, Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), held the 8th GAD Research Conference with the theme “Embracing Community-Based Initiatives to Prevent Gender-Based Violence and Promote Inclusive Societies,” October 18-19, 2023, at Veranda, Hostel Tropicana, CvSU, Indang, Cavite.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU joins other HEIs in consortium for river conservation 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) joined other higher education institutions (HEIs) in the Philippines in the Weaving Collaborative Actions Toward Resilient, Renewable, and Regenerative Water Management

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU officials participate in Regional Futures Consortium Workshop 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University key officials joined the assembly of Region IV-A and IV-B State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) officials at Batangas State University – The National Engineering University for the…

 
 Read More

----- DOC | University Housing Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-housing-facilities/ | 2025-11-05 -----
STATEMENT OF POLICY 

This policy shall govern the existing and newly-constructed housing facilities in the CvSU Employees' Village at the Don Severino delas Alas Campus of Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite.

This policy shall apply to all faculty and staff holding regular or permanent status of appointment and found qualified pursuant to the herein stipulated areas of concern.

The award of a housing unit is considered a privilege and is open and made available to CvSU employees that meet the qualifications and requirements to occupy, for a limited period. The said privilege can be revoked or withdrawn anytime, in accordance with terms and conditions of this policy and pertinent laws, rules, and regulations.

Employees granted the privilege are encouraged to acquire their own off-campus housing as their permanent residence upon termination of the housing privilege.

 QUALIFICATION CRITERIA FOR APPLICANTS 

CvSU employees who are qualified to apply for a housing facility must meet the following minimum criteria:

 
 holding permanent status of appointment at the time of application; and

 does not own a residential house within 10 km from the CvSU-Main campus.

 
 FILING OF APPLICATION 

Interested employee who wish to avail a housing facility shall fill up an Application Form (UHCE Form 1) to be submitted to the Office of the University President, which in turn shall forward the same to the Committee for evaluation and final recommendation.

The said application form may be downloaded from the University website or may be secured from the OVPBRG. The Committee, thru its Secretariat, shall provide the applicant with UHCE Form 2 or the Housing Applicant Information Sheet that will serve as the basis for evaluation, including other pertinent supporting documents like copy of the Service Record.

 Evaluation Process 

 
 Upon availability of a housing facility, the committee shall convene to evaluate the eligibility of the applicants, prepare a ranking and recommend the result of evaluation to the University President.

 All entries made in UHCE Forms 1 & 2 shall be considered as true information. Misrepresentation in any information shall be a ground for disqualification.

 The criteria for evaluation of applicants shall be the same for both academic and non-academic personnel, as follows:

 
 
 
 
 Criteria 
 Points 

 
  Service in the University, regardless of nature of appointment (years and months) 
 1 point per year 

 
 No. of dependents that lives with the applicant (spouse; unmarried children; and parents, if single) 
 1 point per dependent 

 
 Designations

 Dean, director or its equivalent

 Chairperson or unit head

 Other designations 
  

 8 points

 6 points

 4 points 

 
 Circumstances relevant to the interest of the University

 Health related positions

 Plants and animals' care; safety and security; power and water services; or food services 
  

 5 points

 4 points 

 
 Travel distance to Cavite State University

 More than 25 kilometers

 21 to 25 kilometers

 16 to 20 kilometers

 11 to 15 kilometers 
  

 5 points

 4 points

 3 points

 2 points 

 
 Notes:

 
 Only one designation shall be given score in the evaluation whichever is higher.

 Additional 5 points will be given if the qualified dependent is working in the University regardless of employment status.

 In case that both employee in a family applied for a housing unit, both could be evaluated separately but in no case shall their point be summed up.

 
 

 
 
 
 After evaluation the committee shall recommend to the University President through a resolution ALL the qualified applicants based on the ranks obtained from the points.

 
 NOTICE AND ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD 

 
 Upon approval of the University President, the committee shall issue a Notice of Award to the selected applicant.

 The applicant should sign in the Acceptance of Award to confirm their availment of the housing facility which should be returned to the Secretariat within three days.

 
 EXECUTION OF OCCUPANCY RIGHT AGREEMENT 

 
 Employees who are accepted the award for housing unit shall execute “Contract of Lease” with the University.

 The Contract shall be executed in at least six (6) copies, within ten (10) working days upon notice and acceptance of award. Such copies shall be distributed as follows: original copy for the Records Office, one copy each for the occupant, the Committee, the Business Affairs and Marketing Office (BAMO) and 2 copies for the Notary Public.

 The employee shall be allowed to move in upon submission of the three (3) copies of the notarized contract to the Secretariat.

 
 CLASSIFICATION OF HOUSING FACILITY 

There shall be three (3) types of housing facilities in the University classified as follows:

 Class A: Permanent housing facility constructed in 2023 onwards designed for a family.

Class B: Old housing facility designed for a family.

Class C: Shared housing facility for bachelors/bachelorettes.

 ALLOCATION OF HOUSING FACILITY 

 
 There shall be an executive housing facility to be automatically assigned to the University President while the Vice-Presidents may avail a housing facility upon request to the President, provided that there is an available unit. Their term of stay shall be co-terminus with their respective term of office. The President may avail and shall be given priority in other unit upon completion of the term of office. Former Vice Presidents may also apply to continue the housing privilege subject to evaluation based on the criteria as stated in this Policy.

 There shall be a reasonable distribution of housing units among the academic and non-academic personnel, at the rate of 60% and 40% respectively.

 The distribution ratio must be considered to determine the priority group for the award of available housing. However, in case of vacancy, the vacant facility shall be offered to another qualified applicant should there be no one qualified to fill in and meet the ratio either for academic or non-academic employee.

 
 TENURE OF OCCUPANCY 

 
 Employees who may have the privilege to stay in the housing facility shall be given a maximum of ten (10) years. After which, it is assumed that the employee had established an own residence. The Contract of Lease should be for a period of two (2) years, subject to renewal. They shall be permitted to enjoy such right until their contract expires or has been terminated, or their services to the University was terminated either by resignation or retirement.

 Occupants with expired contract upon approval and effectivity of this revised Policy shall be determined immediately and an “Order to Vacate” shall be served by the Committee within fifteen (15) days. The Accounting Unit will make sure that the due accounts of these occupants on housing occupancy shall be collected through salary deduction. Likewise, occupants who shall resist the Order to Vacate shall be charged a penalty twice the current rental rate of the housing facility they are occupying.

 For the occupants who are still qualified to stay but fails to renew the Contract for a period of three (3) months after its expiration, the contract shall be deemed terminated and an 'Order to Vacate' shall be issued. After which, it is assumed that the occupant has established an own abode and the facility shall be deemed vacant. In such case, Section 12.2 shall also be applied.

 Occupants whose nature of stay was found not in accordance with this rule, upon investigation shall be considered illegal occupant, hence, they shall be issued an “Order to Vacate” and shall be executed within fifteen (15) days from date of receipt. All unpaid rents computed based on their length of stay upon investigation shall be collected through salary deduction.

 A 'Notice of Termination' shall be served by the Committee to the occupants concerned not later than sixty (60) days prior to the termination of the contract to give such occupant an ample time to settle their household, or to renew their contract.

 Occupants who shall be separated from the service with the University through retirement, death, disability or any other causes, their household shall voluntarily and automatically vacate the unit within six (6) months from the date of effectivity of such cause of separation.

 Occupants who consumed the maximum of ten (10) years may apply for an extension of only one (1) year subject to the approval of the President.

 Any occupant who left the facility vacant for a period of six (6) months shall be deemed voluntarily terminated the Contract. As such, the unit shall be declared vacant.

 Any occupant who commits violations of any provision in the existing Policies and Guidelines, after proven through investigations shall: (1) be warned in the first offense; (2) not be qualified for the renewal of Contract in the second offense; and (3) render the Contract terminated and shall be issued an 'Order to Vacate' the facility immediately in the third offense.

 The occupant who was able to establish an own abode shall voluntarily surrender the facility to the Committee and likewise shall voluntarily terminate the Contract to give chance to other applicants to enjoy the privilege.

 
 RENTAL RATES AND MODE OF PAYMENT 

 
 The monthly rent for each housing unit shall be determined according to the existing rate.

 A monthly payment of rent shall be required through salary deduction during the first (1st) quincena payroll.

 Upon signing of the contract, the occupant shall be required to make a deposit equivalent to two (2) months rental to absorb unavoidable arrears/defaults in payment, as well as to serve as reserve for clean-up work once the unit is vacated. However, these amounts shall be refunded to the occupant upon termination of the contract, the former if he has no outstanding account due for the University and the latter if he does the cleaning of the unit and its surrounding, repaired the damages, and replaced the broken and unrepairable items, prior to departure. Otherwise, the same shall be forfeited accordingly. The amount so collected in these deposits shall be kept in an authorized depository bank as a trust fund earning interest. Such interests shall be used to absorb deflationary costs in the performance of repair and maintenance of the housing facility.

 The schedule of rental rates for housing facility are as follows:

 
 
 
 
 Classification 
 Base Rate (FY 2024) 
 Increase every 2 years 

 
 Class A 
 P 5,000/mo. 
 P 500.00 

 
 Class B 
 P 3,000/mo. 
 P 300.00 

 
 Class C* 
 P 1,500/mo. 
 P 150.00 

 
 
   

 
 
 
 Fiscal Year 
 Monthly Rate 

 
 Class A 
 Class B 
 Class C* 

 
 2024 – 2025 
 5000.00 
 3000.00 
 1500.00 

 
 2026 – 2027 
 5500.00 
 3300.00 
 1650.00 

 
 2028 – 2029 
 6000.00 
 3600.00 
 1800.00 

 
 2030 – 2031 
 6500.00 
 3900.00 
 1950.00 

 
 2032 – 2033 
 7000.00 
 4200.00 
 2100.00 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Class C* – the payment is per occupant. 

  

 
 The rates may be changed upon review and recommendation of the Committee subject to the approval of the University President.

 For water services, the following rate schedule shall apply; subject to increase of 5% per annum to cover inflation rate provided the rate shall not exceed the prevailing rate charged by the Local Water District of Indang.

 
 
 
 
 Quantity Consumed 
 Rate 

 
 First 10 cu.m. or less 
 P 185.00/ cu.m.

 (minimum rate) 

 
 Next 10 cu.m. 
 P 20.00 / cu.m. 

 
 Over 20 cu.m. 
 P 25.00 / cu.m. 

 
 
 In case of defective water meter, a fixed rate of P 300.00 per month for class A and B and P150.00 for class C shall be charge to the occupants. 

 
 For electricity, the electrical services at the CvSU Employees Village are provided by MERALCO, hence, MERALCO rates shall apply. Occupants whose electric services are supplied by the University power system shall be charged according to MERALCO rates. The electric meter shall be provided by the University. For Class C, they will be charged a fixed rate of P300.00 per occupant.

 
 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

 
 The occupant and immediate family (spouse and unmarried children, or parents, if single) are the only authorized occupants of the unit irrespective of head counts. However, smaller family unit could be allowed to accommodate other relatives or domestic helpers provided that when the number of occupants exceeds six (6), they shall be charged P200.00 per month for each additional resident. The monthly rent for each housing unit shall be determined according to the existing rate.

 The occupant shall be held liable for the conduct of their household members resulting to any damages.

 As the leased unit shall be used exclusively for private residence of the occupant and immediate family members, the occupant is automatically not authorized to sublease the unit.

 No alteration, addition or other improvements within the building shall be made by the occupant without the written approval of the University upon recommendation of the Committee and once approved, all improvements or addition shall become part and property of the University. Total costs incurred by the occupant shall be made deductible to the monthly rental subject to submission of receipts of all the materials used in the said improvement upon review of the Committees. However, improvement outside the building including garage and dirty kitchen may be requested and recommended by the Committee but shall be at the own expense of the occupant and will not be deducted from the monthly rental.

 The leased premises shall be kept clean and orderly at all times. Quarterly inspection and monitoring shall be conducted by the Business Affairs and Marketing Office for the purpose. An inspection report shall be submitted to the Committee for review and appropriate action.

 Unnecessary disturbances such as emanating from blaring radios, TV sets, videoke, car horns, firecrackers and any other disturbing noise shall be avoided particularly during rest periods.

 No permanent plants shall be removed by the occupant upon termination of the lease without prior approval of the Committee.

 Unless authorized by the Committee, no animals such as pets, poultry and livestock shall be kept on the leased premises.

 No transfer to another housing unit of CvSU Employees' Village shall be allowed except upon approval by the Committee after due verification of the unit and validation of the grounds of transfer.

 No highly inflammable or explosive materials or chemicals shall be kept in the premises. Provided, fire arms kept at the housing facility are properly licensed by the authorized agency.

 Occupants are bound to follow university rules that have bearing to the proper utilization of the housing units or to the occupancy which includes strict prohibition on possession and/or use of illegal drugs and illegal gambling, excessive use of plastic and Styrofoam food containers and display of pornographic materials.

 In no case, should an occupant engage in business in the housing unit nor put signages to that effect.

 Occupants are required to report early signs of termite incursion to the BAMO and/or PPS for appropriate action.

 Occupants are expected to abide with the solid waste management system of the University and refrain from open burning of their garbage.

 Occupants shall exercise professional standards of social and moral conducts to serve as models in the community.

 
 TRANSFERABILITY 

The right of the occupant to the housing facility is not transferable and the usual procedure in awarding a housing unit shall be followed should the spouse or any of the children of the occupant desires to occupy the unit upon their retirement.

 TRANSITORY PROVISION 

 
 Applicants with pending applications filed at the Committee before the effectivity of these policy and guidelines shall be required to re-confirm their applications under these rules.

 All occupants whose contract is in accordance with 2009 Revised Policy, their contract shall be renewed January of the following year upon approval of this policy and shall adapt the new rules and regulation hereof.

----- DOC | Grievance Committee Annual Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/grievance-committee-annual-report/ | 2025-10-08 -----
Grievance Committee Report

(For the Year 2024) 

  

 Cavite State University (CvSU) upholds the principles of accountability, transparency, and ethical conduct in all aspects of its operations. In line with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System standards and Civil Service Commission (CSC) requirements, CvSU maintains both internal grievance mechanisms and external accountability measures to ensure that concerns are addressed fairly, promptly, and consistently. 

 This report summarizes the governance and ethics-related activities undertaken by the University in 2024. 

 The Grievance Committee provides employees and stakeholders with a formal venue to raise workplace issues and administrative concerns, ensuring resolution in accordance with Civil Service Commission (CSC) policies. 

 The Committee convenes as needed to ensure a timely response to grievances. In 2024, a total of seven (7) meetings were held to address submitted complaints, which included deliberations on cases, and mediation sessions. 

 Summary of Internal Cases Handled (2024) 

 
 
 
 TYPE OF CASE 
 NUMBER OF CASES 
 STATUS 

 
 Workplace grievance 
 1 
 Resolved 

 
 Total 
 1 
   

 
 
  

 Moreover, as part of its commitment to good governance and ethical accountability, Cavite State University also actively responds to complaints and concerns filed through the 8888 Citizen's Complaint Center, a government platform for reporting issues against public offices. 

 Upon receipt of a complaint, the Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services forwards the matter to the concerned office or employee for response and corrective action. The concerned office then prepares a reply, which is carefully reviewed and submitted through the portal within the prescribed timeframe. 

 To ensure transparency and accountability, copies of responses and resolution reports are also filed and monitored. 

 Summary of 8888 Complaints (2024) 

 
 
 
 NATURE OF COMPLAINT 
 NUMBER RECEIVED 
 NUMBER RESOLVED / CLOSED 
 RESOLUTION RATE 

 
 Integrity and Conduct – Employee 
 7 
 7 
   

 
 Integrity – Process and Services 
 36 
 35 
   

 
 Frontline Service Procedures 
 3 
 3 
   

 
 ARTA-Related Concern 
 2 
 2 
   

 
 Education-Related Concern 
 13 
 13 
   

 
 Total 
 61 
 60* 
 98.36 % 

 
 
 *The complaint was filed late in December and was promptly resolved by early January. 

  

 To prevent grievances and strengthen ethical awareness, CvSU, through the Gender and Development Resource Center, conducted the following activities in 2024: 

 
 
 
 TITLE OF SEMINAR 
 DATE 
 VENUE / MODE 

 
 Safe Spaces, Big Impact! How Influencers can Champion Online Safety for All 
 September 26, 2024 
 Online via Facebook Live 

 
 Re-orientation on Men Opposed to Violence Against Women Everywhere (MOVE) 
 December 2, 2024 
 Online via Facebook Live 

 
 RA 11313: The Safe Spaces Act 
 December 2, 2024 
 Online via Facebook Live 

 
 
  

 For the year under review, Cavite State University achieved a 100% resolution rate for all internal grievances and 98.36% for 8888 complaints, ensuring that concerns were addressed promptly and effectively. This consistent responsiveness has contributed to improving stakeholder trust, as the timely resolution of issues reflects the University's commitment to accountability and good governance.

----- DOC | Grievance Committee Regular Meeting Schedule | https://cvsu.edu.ph/grievance-committee-regular-meeting-schedule/ | 2025-10-08 -----
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE CALENDAR

 The University has institutionalized the Grievance Committee as a key non-research ethics body in compliance with national regulations and internal governance policies. The Committee addresses general administrative complaints and employee concerns in accordance with Civil Service Commission (CSC) guidelines, ensuring fairness, accountability, and ethical conduct in resolving disputes. 

 The Committee convenes upon receipt of complaints and maintains a standing monthly schedule to meet as necessary. These meetings may address actual grievance or misconduct cases, or serve as venues policy review or preparing consolidated monitoring reports even during months when no cases are filed. 

  

 2025 Meeting Calendar 

 
 
 
 MONTH 
 SCHEDULED DATE 
 AGENDA / NOTES 
 STATUS 

 
 January 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Review of TOR and procedures 
 No complaints filed 

 
 February 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 March 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 April 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 May 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 June 
 11 
 The Committee convened to discuss the complaint of Faculty A against Faculty B and the next course of action 
 On-going 

 
 
 23 
 Formal inquiry on the grievance of Faculty A. 

  

 The Committee also agreed to invite Faculty B on June 25 to present his side of the matter. 
 On-going 

 
 
 25 
 Faculty B did not respond to the invitation sent via email. The Committee was also informed that he was on leave when the letter was delivered personally. Hence, he remained unresponsive to the invitation. 

  

 The Committee agreed to submit preliminary report to the Office of President. 
 Preliminary Grievance Committee Report was submitted to the Office of the University President on July 15 

 
 July 
 14 
 The Committee convened to discuss the complaint of Faculty C against Faculty D and to plan the next course of action. 
 On-going 

 
 
 17 
 The Committee conducted separate meetings with both parties to listen to and document their respective narratives. 

  

 After hearing the narratives of both parties, the Committee proceeded with an initial deliberation. 
 On-going 

 
 
 29 
 Due to several work suspensions in the past week, the Committee requested an extension of the report submission from the Office of the President. 
 Grievance Committee Report was submitted to the Office of the President on August 7 

 
 August 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 September 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 
 Names of the parties involved have been withheld to maintain confidentiality. 

   

  

 2024 Meeting Calendar 

 
 
 
 MONTH 
 SCHEDULED DATE 
 AGENDA / NOTES 
 STATUS 

 
 January 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Review of TOR and procedures 
 No complaints filed 

 
 February 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 March 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 April 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 May 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 June 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 July 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 August 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 September 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 October 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, and reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 November 
 November 7 
 The Committee convened to discuss the complaint of Faculty A forwarded by the Office of the President on November 4. During the meeting, the Committee resolved to request the mediation report from the concerned campus to gain a clearer understanding of Faculty A's concerns. Additionally, the Committee scheduled a separate meeting with Faculty A and Faculty B for further clarification. 
 On-going 

 
 
 November 12 
 The Committee reviewed the report submitted by the concerned campus' Mediation Committee. 

  

 They also met with Faculty A to hear her narrative. 

   
 On-going 

 
 
 November 13 
 The Committee met with the Mediation Committee from the concerned campus to clarify the issues presented by Faculty A. 

  

 The Committee also met with Faculty B to hear his narrative. 
 On-going 

 
 
 November 19 
 The Committee convened to discuss the statements from the parties involved. 

  

 The Committee acknowledged that the action requested by Faculty A falls outside the scope of the Grievance Committee's responsibilities. However, they will still make an effort to explore whether a compromise agreement can be reached. 

   
 On-going 

 
 
 November 20 
 The Committee set a meeting with Faculty A to inform her of the responses to the items listed in the Grievance Form. 

   
 On-going 

 
 
 November 25 
 The Committee to deliberate on the issues including the letter from Faculty A sent on November 21, 2024. 

  

 After thoroughly reviewing the accounts provided by all parties involved, the Committee has determined that the issue has already significantly impacted Faculty A's relationship with the individuals concerned, and has also given rise to additional matters requiring resolution. 

  

 Moreover, Faculty A had already taken her complaint against Faculty B to court, which further complicates the possibility of a resolution through the Grievance Committee. 

   
 Grievance Committee Report was submitted to the Office of the University President on December 4 

 
 December 
 3rd Tuesday 
 Monitoring, consolidation, reporting 
 No complaints filed 

 
 
 Names of the parties involved have been withheld to maintain confidentiality.

----- DOC | Sustainable Procurement | https://cvsu.edu.ph/sustainable-procurement/ | 2025-10-08 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) upholds the principles of transparency, accountability, efficiency, and sustainability in all its procurement activities, in accordance with New Government Procurement Act (NGPA) Republic Act No. 12009, amending the Government Procurement Reform Act (RA 9184), and its Implementing Rules and Regulations. 

 CvSU integrates sustainability principles in its purchasing and contracting practices by: 

 
 promoting the efficient use of resources and environmentally responsible procurement; 

 ensuring compliance with environmental, social, and ethical standards set by law; and 

 encouraging suppliers and contractors who demonstrate sustainable and responsible practices.

----- DOC | Grievance Process Flow | https://cvsu.edu.ph/grievance-process-flow/ | 2025-10-08 -----
This flow shows how employees can raise and resolve work-related concerns in a fair and timely manner. Following the Civil Service Commission (CSC) Grievance Machinery, the process helps ensure that every grievance is heard, acted upon, and properly resolved to maintain a positive and respectful workplace.

----- DOC | Services Offered for Foreign Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/services-offered-for-foreign-students/ | 2025-10-08 -----
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY PROGRAMS

 BROCHURE - LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY PROGRAMS-1 
  

 ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING PROGRAMS

 BROCHURE - ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING PROGRAMS-1 
  

 Procedure for Foreign Student Visa Conversion

  

 

  

 BI Form CGAF-003-Rev 2

----- DOC | Foreign Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/foreign-students/ | 2025-10-08 -----
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS OF UNITED NATIONS 

 ORGANIZATION VISION 

 The International Students of United Nations hoped to unite with the university as they model all foreign students in the university as to lift up higher the vision of the university in developing globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

 ORGANIZATION MISSION 

 International Students of United Nations shall comply with all academic rules and regulations of the university as to achieve the vision and mission set forth by university. It shall uphold and utilize all relevant and educational opportunities in colleges of the university as to promote and protect the high reputation built by the university since 1906 till date. It shall produce law abiding and peaceful candidates who will serve as crusaders to attract other foreigners into the university.

 AIM and OBJECTIVES 

 Sequel to, and in support of the vision, mission and by-laws, our aims and objectives is to have a unified body of foreign students who will support and encourage each other as to maintain the focus that led us into Philippines and much more into Cavite State University. And also to take our studies more serious in order to graduate with honors were possible as to make our parents, sponsors, supporters, our countries, instructors, professors and the university proud.

 HISTORY 

 The dream of setting up an organization on behalf foreign students in Cavite State University was hatched on a good day that Mahel ThankGod A. perused through student handbook and found out on page 5, 6,  were the handbook states that when foreign students are more than 5, an adviser should be designated to look after their welfare. Based on this academic rules and regulations, the said name and person above met with the dean of student's affairs with the sole aim to inquire if foreign students in the university had any adviser. However, at the end of meeting with the dean, records showed that there was none and on that juncture, the dean promised that an organization will put in place and also appoint someone to man it.

 Hence, we wish to thank the dean and cavite State University immensely for fulfilling their promise which gave birth to International Students of United Nations (ISUN).

 The said organization was formerly inaugurated on 15 th  August, 2012 and Mahel ThankGod Amukele a second year student of College of Arts and Sciences taking up Bachelor of Arts in English was recommended to be the President of the organization and the recommendation was ratified on 28 th  August, 2012 general meeting and election of officers of ISUN. The organization had its first general meeting on August 28, 2012 and the following officer were elected and dedicated into office.

----- DOC | Resolution Passed During Administrative Council Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-board-secretary/resolution-passed-during-administrative-council-meeting/ | 2025-09-30 -----
RESOLUTIONS PASSED ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL (2025)

 Resolutions-passed-administrative-council-meeting-2025 
  

 
 

 RESOLUTIONS PASSED ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL (2024)

 Resolutions-passed-administrative-council-meeting-2024 
  

 
 

 RESOLUTIONS PASSED ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL (2023)

 Resolutions-passed-administrative-council-meeting-2023 
  

 
 

 RESOLUTIONS PASSED ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL (2022)

 Resolutions-passed-administrative-council-meeting-2022 
  

 
 RESOLUTIONS PASSED ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL (2021)

  

 Resolutions-passed-administrative-council-meeting-2021

----- DOC | University Calendar AY 2024-2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-calendar-ay-2024-2025/ | 2025-09-02 -----
First Semester AY 2024-2025 

 

  

 
 
 
 Second Semester AY 2024-2025 

  

 

 
 
 
 MIDYEAR 2025 

 

 
 UNIVERSITY CALENDAR AY 2023-2024 

 This page was last edited on 09 September 2024.

----- DOC | College of Arts and Sciences – Contact Us | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-arts-and-sciences-contact-us/ | 2025-09-02 -----
College of Arts and Sciences: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/cvsumaincas 

 cas@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Department of Biological Sciences: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/CvSUDBS 

 dbs@cvsu.edu.ph   

 
 Department of Communication: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/cvsucasdcomm 

 dcomm.cas@cvsu.edu.ph   

 
 Department of Humanities: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/casdhum   

 dhum.cas@cvsu.edu.ph   

 
 Department of Physical Sciences: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100066951903422   

 
 Department of Social Sciences: 

 
 https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=61554515664752 

 dsocsci.cas@gmail.com 

 
  

 This page was last edited on 02 September 2025.

----- DOC | College of Arts and Sciences – Programs Offered | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-arts-and-sciences-programs-offered/ | 2025-09-02 -----
Bachelor of Arts in Communication 

 Program Description  

 BA Communication is a field of study that covers the various ways by which humans communicate. It focuses on how verbal and non-verbal messages are used to create meanings in different contexts using diverse media platforms. It includes a broad range of subject matter, ranging from the study of communication in interpersonal relationships, groups, organizations, and cultures. 

 Objectives  

 The program aims to: 

 
 equip students with the knowledge and skills in the theory and practice of communication applicable in various professions and contexts, with a focus on the media professions; 

 uphold professional and ethical standards in communication while being sensitive to cultural diversity and social responsibility through exposure to industry or corporate exposure; 

 conduct research to analyze communication issues, develop innovative solutions, and contribute to the body of knowledge in the field of communication, and  

 demonstrate mastery of communication theories, principles and practices applicable to various professions and contexts but are not limited to public and corporate communication/information officers, social science and communication researchers/analysts, communication/media planners and managers, program/project development officers, public relations and advertising practitioners, media practitioners, learning system designers, multimedia designers, and allied/related professions. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Science in Development Communication 

 Program Description  

 Bachelor of Science in Development Communication is a field of study that covers the various ways by which humans communicate. It focuses on how verbal and non-verbal messages are used to create meanings in various media platforms. It includes a broad range of subject matter from communication, natural and social sciences, and other technical courses such as agriculture, health, and environment. This also includes the study of communication in interpersonal relationships, groups, organizations, and cultures.   

 Objectives 

 The program aims to: 

 
 equip students with the knowledge and skills needed in teaching, managing, and implementing communication programs for development; 

 cultivate a critical understanding of development perspectives and the ability to analyze and address complex issues in communication for development; 

 guide student-communicators who uphold ethical standards and practices in their professional endeavors through industry and corporate exposure; and  

 develop graduates who may find employment in, but not limited to public and corporate communication/information officers, social science and communication researchers/analysts, communication/media planners and managers, program/project development officers, media practitioners, learning system designers, multimedia designers, and in the allied/related professions. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Science in Biology 

 Program Description 

 The Biological Science Program for BS Biology students is designed to equip graduates with skills and knowledge in human resources that will enhance the progress of this agriculturally based country, depending on their specialization.  In the said program, the course curriculum is systematically given from first to fourth year levels, assuring that BS Biology students will be given all necessary subjects to be used once they are in the field. There are lots of private and government-owned and controlled corporations and research institutions that can readily make use of their knowledge in their chosen career. An increasing number of industries are now becoming allied to biological sciences, especially to the pharmaceutical, food, and scientific supply manufacturing. 

 Objectives 

 The program is structured to meet the needs of professional biologists who: 

 
 can be employed in government/private institutions and other agencies where scientists with biological expertise are needed; 

 can engage in entrepreneurial activities; 

 conduct research in various areas in biology; 

 undertake postgraduate education in Biology and allied fields; and 

 pursue a career in teaching. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Arts in Journalism  

 Program Description 

 Bachelor of Arts in Journalism covers the principles and techniques of reporting, writing, producing, and disseminating news in a range of forms, formats, and platforms in a democracy such as the Philippines. It focuses on timely events, issues, and developments relevant to the communities the journalist serves. This field of study promotes professional and ethical standards and includes reflection on best practices. 

 Objectives 

 The students in this program: 

 
 are equipped with knowledge, skills, attitudes, values, ethics, and competence that professionals need; 

 have the capacity to anticipate and respond to the needs of rapidly developing media; and 

 may pursue the following career paths, but not limited to broadcast journalists, media researchers, news analysts, news organization representatives, public broadcasting agents, public relations practitioners, photojournalists, proofreaders, program directors, reporters, website developers, and writers. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies 

 Program Description 

 Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies offers courses that are designed to integrate theory and practice to prepare students for effective communication in English in diverse contexts and situations. 

 Objectives 

  The program aims to: 

 
 provide a comprehensive knowledge of the English language, its origin, growth and development, structures, and use; 

 enhance the student's competencies in the use of the English language in real-world contexts; and 

 present appropriate strategies of language use through a heightened awareness of how English works in different situations in the Philippines, in Asia, and the rest of the world.  

 
  

 Bachelor of Science in Psychology 

 Program Description 

 This program is designed to provide students with knowledge-based methods, content areas, and essential theories in the field of psychology. It seeks to facilitate the development of intellectual skills and characteristics that enhance the students' lifelong personal and career success. The program begins with a General Psychology course and includes courses in quantitative methods and experimental designs. Additional coursework is selected from a broad range of available courses.  Students are encouraged to pursue breadth across the areas of Psychology, particularly when planning for advanced study in Psychology. The department does, however, identify sets of courses particularly relevant for students interested in clinical, school, or industrial/ organizational psychology. 

 Objectives 

  The program aims to: 

 
 produce graduates who can apply psychological principles in analyzing structures of society; 

 systematically equip students with a foundation of theories and practice for real-life activities, research, and extension services; 

 yield critical thinkers and creative workers for professional global competitiveness in educational, industrial, and clinical settings; 

 cultivate professionally competent, morally upright, and socially responsible individuals exposed to various psychological situations; and 

 hone future psychometricians, psychologists, counselors, human resource managers, educators, and other psychological-helping professionals able to respond to the demands of a growing society. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science 

 Program Description 

 Political Science, as a discipline, delves into multifarious and intricate activities of man as well as political, economic, social, and cultural processes. Students are trained for careers in politics, law, teaching, civil service, and foreign service. Furthermore, students are equipped with knowledge and skills in discharging their rights and obligations as members of a democratic community, to prepare them to be vigilant, dynamic, and civic-spirited citizens. 

 Objectives  

 The program aims to: 

 
 compare, contrast, and classify the major concepts in the discipline; 

 recognize and define the distinctiveness of the discipline, its subfields, theories, and methods; 

 design and execute research inquiries using appropriate quantitative and qualitative methods guided by the theories or conceptual framework; 

 demonstrate written, visual, and oral presentation skills to produce and present analytic reports; 

 critique, judge, and response to current issues and problems based on a substantive understanding of the historical and contemporary developments in the national and global context; and 

 develop a predisposition towards ethical political involvement and practice in various forms and on different levels of engagement. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Science in Social Work 

 Program Description 

 The Bachelor of Science in Social Work (BSSW) program of Cavite State University is in accordance with CMO No. 39 s. 2017.  The social work program prepares students for professional entry-level social work practice.  It is geared towards the preparation of students for generalist social work practice. Professional education in social work requires the acquisition and application of a beginning level of knowledge, attitudes, values, and skills in enhancing the social functioning of individuals, families, groups and communities, linking people (client systems) with needed resources, improving the operation of social service delivery networks, and promoting social justice through organizing and advocacy. 

 Objectives 

 Upon successful completion of the program, its graduates are expected to: 

 
 pass the board exam for social workers; 

 be equipped with knowledge, attitudes, values, and skills necessary for a beginning professional generalist practitioner in working with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and communities; 

 promote biological, psychological, social, and spiritual growth and development and people empowerment through various social activities; 

 develop partnerships nationally and internationally with government and non-government agencies, and/or enhance the college's existing resources and services; and 

 be globally competitive and morally upright individuals responsive to the needs and demands of society. 

 
  

 Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics 

 Program Description 

 The curriculum for the BS Applied Mathematics is built around a traditional base of foundational or core courses in the major areas of mathematics and applied mathematics with the inclusion of specialized courses in mathematics, applied mathematics, relevant disciplines, and emerging areas. 

 Objectives 

 The program aims to: 

 
 Provide the students with a curriculum that shall enhance their mathematical and critical thinking skills, and develop in them a greater appreciation and understanding of the importance of mathematics in history and in the modern world; 

 Prepare the students for advanced studies in mathematics, applied mathematics, and related fields; 

 Train students and develop them to become competent and well-equipped instructors to teach mathematics and statistics in college; 

 Prepare students for mathematics-oriented careers in industry, business, and public administration; 

 Guide students in conducting scientific researches relevant to the thrusts of the Department, College, and the University; and 

 Encourage students to render extension services to the stakeholders in line with the program. 

 
  

 This page was last edited on 02 September 2025.

----- DOC | College of Arts and Sciences – College Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-arts-and-sciences-college-goals/ | 2025-09-02 -----
The College of Arts and Sciences shall endeavor to: 

 
 C ater relevant general education subjects and specialization courses in the arts and sciences to develop critically minded and morally upright individuals capable of meeting national and global demands; 

 A dvance sustainable research and extension in the arts and sciences responsive to the institutional, regional, and global thrusts; and 

 S trengthen local and international partnership and linkages to promote professional and societal development. 

 
  

 This page was last edited on 02 September 2025.

----- DOC | College of Arts and Sciences | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-arts-and-sciences/ | 2025-08-20 -----
College Profile 

  

 The School of Arts and Sciences was one of the first schools created on 11 February 1992 by then Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC). It was headed by Dr. Lorna L. Penales who also managed three departments under its wing, namely, the Department of Languages and Humanities, the Department of Biological Sciences and the Department of Physical Sciences, each of which was chaired by Ms. Nelia Espejo, Dr. Josefina Rint, and Prof. Trinidad Ocampo, respectively. 

 During the time of its conception, the School had no curricular program of its own; yet, it catered to the basic education courses of the various undergraduate programs of the University by offering major courses in Mathematics, Chemistry, Crop Protection, Biology, and Science, as well as basic courses in Math, Chemistry, Physics, Statistics, Languages, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Biological Sciences. 

 Considering its program offerings, the School started to offer Bachelor of Science in Biology (BS Bio) during the first semester of SY 1994-1995. The following year, two new programs were offered: Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics (BSAM) and Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (BS Chem). A year later, Bachelor of Arts in Mass Communication (BAMC) was approved and offered to students. 

 Back in 1998, by virtue of the Republic Act No.8468, Don Severino Agricultural College, a premier college not only in the region but in the whole country as well, was converted into a state university to be known as CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY. It follows then, that the four schools under it, including the School of Arts and Sciences, were elevated into colleges. Thus, the COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES. 

 The first dean of the college was Dr. Lutgarda P. Ilagan who was directly under the supervision of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. She focused mainly on the College's commitment to the students. Through the concerted efforts of the faculty members and staff of the college along with the support of the Administration, the College was able to revise and update the existing curricula of the BS Applied Mathematics program, as well as pass the Accreditation Preliminary Survey of the AACCUP for the BS Bio, BSAM, and BS Chem in 2000. 

 By 2001, Dr. Divinia C. Chavez took over the deanship of the College. She was primarily concerned with the College's goal of providing relevant and quality instruction, responsive research and extension services in the arts and sciences toward the development of globally competitive and morally upright individuals and preparing students for careers in different fields. A year after she assumed the position, two new programs were offered: the BS Nursing and the BS Psychology. Level 2 accreditation status for both BSAM and BS Chem curricula was also attained. Quite a number of equipment and instruction devices were procured including two sets of Soxhlet heating mantle apparatus and UV-vis spectrophotometer, to name a few. Chemical rooms, display cabinets, laboratory tables, and rooms were likewise acquired. In 2004, Bachelor of Arts in English, and the only graduate program of the College, Master of Science in Biology, were offered. 

 In 2007, Dr. Cecilia B. Banaag became the dean of the College. During her deanship, AB Political Science was offered. 

 By the year 2008, Dr. Evelyn O. Singson was appointed as the college's dean. In 2011, the college started to offer BS Social Work under the Department of Social Sciences and Humanities. To continuously provide the students with quality education, the University approved the revision of the BAMC curriculum and renamed it as Bachelor of Arts in Journalism in 2012. 

 In January 2014, Dr. Lynn G. Penales was designated as the dean of the college.  Through her leadership, the College of Arts and Sciences continued to offer services aimed at producing holistic learners from different fields. She also led the college in the conduct of various extension and research activities. 

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, faculty of the Department of Languages and Mass Communication, was the college's dean from 2016 to 2023. Her leadership geared towards producing faculty, staff, and students who are Carriers of Truth, Advocates of Excellence, and Stewards of Service. To live as one TRUE CAS family (to produce people who Train: Instruction; Research: Research and Development; Utilize: Management and Generation of Resources; and Extend: Community and Extension Services) was her vision for the college. 

 Then from 2024 to early months of 2025, Dr. Armi Grace B. Desingaño took the helm of the college and was able to lead it with a sense of belongingness and oneness despite the diverse composition of its faculty members, nonacademic staff, and students.  

 With the headship of its present dean, Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer sets the sails of the College to help its growing community navigate the changing education landscape characterized by technological advancements such as artificial intelligence (AI) and other digital learning platforms, as well as form academe-industry linkages that will strengthen the knowledge and competencies of its students.  

 At present, the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities of the Philippines (AACCUP) recognizes various levels of accreditation for the academic programs of the College. BA Journalism and Bachelor of Science in Biology have been awarded the Level IV Re-accredited status. BS Social Work qualified for Level II Re-accredited status. More so, BS Applied Mathematics, BA English Language Studies, BA Political Science, and BS Psychology all qualified for Level III Re-accredited status. BA Communication and BS Development Communication were awarded with certificates of authority to operate. 

 The Comprehensive Agenda for Research and Extension Sustainability (2023–2027) or CAS CARES 5.0 is the current research and extension agenda of the College. CAS CARES 5.0 has five banner programs that are aligned with the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These programs are named SYMBIO-Cs: Harmonizing Biology Research and Extension for Community Transformation (Department of Biological Sciences), Developing Communities Through Media Mentorship (Department of Communication), Designing Holistic Extension Initiatives Through Utilization of Meaningful Research Outputs (Department of Humanities), Developing a Progressive Society Through Mathematics and Allied Sciences (Department of Physical Sciences), and Social Organization through Comprehensive Services and Community Intervention (Department of Social Sciences). 

 As of December 2024, CAS is composed of 229 faculty members; 58 of them have permanent status, 4 are enjoying temporary status, 4 are working on contractual basis, and 163 are teaching under contract of service. There are also nine staff working in different units/departments. In terms of academic rank, the college has three professors, 32 associate professors, 22 assistant professors, and 172 instructors. The College also has 14 administrative support staff. 

 To be more equipped in their profession, many of its faculty members have started pursuing their graduate studies. Some of them have already enjoyed scholarship grants given by the Commission on Higher Education to complete their respective degrees. 

  

 This page was last edited on 20 August 2025.

----- DOC | Diversity, Equality, and Inclusion | https://cvsu.edu.ph/diversity-equality-and-inclusion/ | 2025-06-26 -----
Visual Accessibility Tools for Visually Impaired

 
 

 
  

 CVSU Webinars with Sign Language Interpretation

 
 

 
  

 CVSU PWD Accessibility Map

 
 

 
  

 CVSU Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan (2024-2026)

----- DOC | Infographics and Brochures | https://cvsu.edu.ph/legal-services-office/infographics-and-brochures/ | 2025-06-02 -----
INFOGRAGPHICS AND BROCHURES 

 

 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 

 Brochure 1 Sep 2024 - Privacy in a Nutshell Things you need to know about DPA of 2012 and its IRR

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 Brochure 1.1 Sept 2024 - Privacy in a Nutshell Things you need to know about DPA of 2012 and its IRR

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Inforgraphic for Nov 2024 - Smart Practice To Keep Your Data Safe

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for December 2024 - Digital Safety Tips for Christmas - Page 1

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for December 2024 - Digital Safety Tips for Christmas - Page 2

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for January 2025 - Secure Work Data By Using Google Mail and Chat

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for Feb 2025 - Best Practices for Social Media Security

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for March 2025

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 DPO Infographic for May 2025

 
 
 
 
 VIEW FULL IMAGE

----- DOC | Privacy Policies | https://cvsu.edu.ph/legal-services-office/privacy-policies/ | 2025-06-02 -----
CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) POLICY 

   

 A. BACKGROUND 

 The Data Privacy Act of 2012 requires that individuals be informed and provide their consent to the processing of their personal information. Under National Privacy Commission ( NPC) Circular No. 2024 – 02 (Guidelines on the Use of Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) Systems) , entities engaged in the processing of personal data through Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras are mandated to ensure that reasonable and appropriate safeguards are in place for the protection of personal data and adhere to the principles of transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality.

 These guidelines are intended to address emerging privacy risks, and enable the University to properly manage personal data processing through CCTV systems.

  

 B. DEFINITION OF TERMS 

 The following terms are defined as follows:

 
 Civil Security Office refers to the agency unit responsible for safeguarding the CCTV footage within the University and the processing of the Access Request Form in order to allow the data subject access to his/her information being requested.

 Closed-Circuit Television or “CCTV” refers to closed-circuit television or camera surveillance system in a fixed or stationary location that can capture images of individuals or other information relating to individuals;

 Data Subject refers to a person whose personal data is recorded on CCTV systems and has the right to reasonable access to the same pursuant to Section 16 of DPA and Section 34 of the IRR.

 
  

 C. LEGITIMATE PURPOSE FOR PROCESSING 

 The safety and security of the campus and the members of the University community are of primary importance. Technological advances in safety and security include the use of closed-circuit television (CCTV) or camera surveillance systems.

 The collection, use, disclosure, storage, and other processing of personal data by the CCTV system is for purposes of protecting of the security of University property and managing a safe environment for students, faculty, personnel and other individuals, including, without limitation:

 
 To aid in safety and security operations in campus;

 For surveillance in deterring crime and antisocial behavior;

 To capture information that could be used to investigate crimes, such as theft and vandalism;

 For dispute-resolution purposes where there is a dispute as to facts and the recordings may be capable of resolving that dispute;

 For the taking and defense of litigation;

 
  

 D. OPERATIONAL DETAILS 

 
 CCTV System Description 

 
 The cameras operate full time (24 hours a day, 7 days a week).

 The cameras record movement detected in the area under surveillance as well as the time, date and location of the footage.

 The cameras do not conduct sound recording.

 
 Location of Cameras. The placement or siting of CCTV cameras shall not unreasonably intrude on the privacy of individuals. The CCTV system provides coverage over the following areas

 
 
 
 
 Gate entrances, 

 Building entrances/lobby, and 

 Other areas as required by the university operations. 

 

 
 All CCTV systems shall not infringe on private spaces (e.g., private backyards, through windows of private residences) and restricted areas (i.e. toilets/restrooms, lactation or breastfeeding rooms, and other similar places). Upon installation, all equipment shall be tested to ensure that only the designated areas are monitored. The Civil Security Office shall ensure full compliance with the foregoing and succeeding guidelines.

 
 Storage, Security and Maintenance 

 
 The Civil Security Office is the responsible unit in safeguarding the CCTV footage of the University, while a third party service provider shall be responsible for the proper installation, repair, and maintenance of the CCTV cameras being used. The Civil Security Office shall also be the responsible unit in conducting the regular Privacy Impact Assessment on the use of CCTV systems.

 Footage recorded by our CCTV cameras must be encrypted and otherwise stored in a secure manner to protect their confidentiality, integrity and availability.

 The CCTV monitoring and storing equipment must be kept in a segregated, secure restricted area to which only authorized personnel with security clearance are granted access.

 All persons with authorized access to the CCTV system shall be under binding/contractual confidentiality commitments.

 Upon installation, all equipment shall be tested by the Civil Security Office to ensure that suitable quality photos are available in live and play back mode. All CCTV equipment shall be maintained regularly.

   

 E. NOTICE AND CONSENT 

 The consent of an individual must be obtained prior to or as soon as practicable after any footage is recorded. Prior to obtaining this consent, the individual must be informed of the purpose and retention duration of the CCTV recordings. CCTV Privacy Notice be posted in all the following: (1) entry points in and around the building; and (2) receiving areas where security guards require visitors to log their information.

 The following privacy notice wording may be adopted:

 Notice: CCTV in Operation 

  

 “Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras monitor this property and the surrounding areas for security purposes. Relevant footage may be utilized to identify you, your actions and whereabouts. Footages are  typically recorded and kept for a period of 30 days or such longer duration and processed for matters involving security.”

 “By entering this property, you consent to the capture, recording, processing, and sharing of any data that CCTV cameras may obtain, both directly and indirectly.”

 In all receiving areas where visitors log their information, the following must be posted near or on the logbook:

 Notice: CCTV in Operation 

 “By indicating your details in this logbook or entering these premises, you undertake to have read, understood, and consented to our CCTV Privacy Notice.”

  

 F. LIMITED ACCESS 

 Footage captured and recorded by the University is accessible only to authorized personnel only through the issuance of a security clearance signed by both the Director of the Civil Security Office and the Chief Administrative Officer for Administration (main campus) or Campus Administrator (for campuses) . A security clearance should only be issued to personnel whose access is indispensable to the security purpose of capturing and processing the CCTV footage. Copies of issued security clearances should be filed/reported with the University's Data Protection Officer.

 The University executes non-disclosure agreement, outsourcing agreement or data sharing agreement with third-party providers of CCTVs to ensure privacy, safety and security of the individuals, premises and/or the operation and maintenance of the University. Service providers may have access to footage only where strictly required to perform their tasks, and are prohibited from using the footage for any other purposes.

  

 G. RETENTION 

 CCTV footage shall be retained only for as long as necessary to fulfill the purpose for which the CCTV footage was obtained and shall be destroyed once it is no longer needed for its declared and specified purpose. Standard retention period of CCTV footage captured by the University is thirty (30) days after which the file is deleted from the records of the University.

  

 H. REQUEST FOR ACCESS 

 1. Requirements. Individuals who request access to CCTV footage must submit this formally in writing through the completion of Access Request Form and submission of other pertinent documents in order to provide sufficient details to identify the section of footage with which they are concerned and to enable the University to determine that the person making the request is the data subject of that specific recording or his/her authorized representative.

 The request is considered submitted at the time the requesting party complies with the applicable requirements stated in the Access Request Form.

 Upon receipt of the request, security clearance must be processed by the attending personnel and signed by the Director Civil Security Office and Chief Administrative Officer for Administration (main campus) or Campus Administrator (for campuses) with a copy forwarded to the Data Protection Team. Access requests on CCTV recordings must essentially contain when, where and by whom the data will be used.

 A request is deemed abandoned when the requesting party has not fulfilled the aforesaid requirements within thirty (30) days from initially informing CvSU of the intention to either view or obtain a copy of the CCTV footage.

 
 2. Period for Complying with the Request. 

 
 The processing of request for viewing purposes must be made within five (5) working days from receipt of request. The period shall not exceed fifteen (15) working days from the receipt of the request when the request involves obtaining a copy of the CCTV footage.

 If a request is complex or involves numerous footages, whether for viewing or obtaining a copy of the CCTV footage, the period to comply with such request may be extended for an additional period not exceeding fifteen (15) working days with notice to the requesting party.

 
  

 3. Response Procedure. 

 a. Viewing. If the request for viewing purposes is granted, requesting party may be allowed a reasonable opportunity to view the requested footage, subject to the following conditions:

 
 
 
 CCTV footage shall be viewed in an authorized and secure area;

 Only the requesting party and the authorized personnel of CvSU shall be allowed to view such footage; and

 Other security measures to ensure confidentiality of the footage to be viewed shall be implemented, such as signing of non-disclosure agreements or prohibiting the capture of the footage through mobile phones and other devices, where appropriate.

 

 
 
 b. Obtaining a copy of the CCTV footage. In case of request for a copy of the CCTV footage, the copying of footage must be made in a secure manner that maintains the integrity of the footage and any associated metadata. In circumstances where there is technical difficulty in providing a copy of the footage in video format, still images may be provided as an alternative, subject to reasonable charges, whenever necessary to cover administrative costs.

  

 4. Authorized Disclosures. Subject to the criteria provided for the lawful processing of personal data under the  Data Privacy Act of 2012, CCTV footage may also be disclosed in the following instances:

 a. Law enforcement and criminal investigation. With respect to requests for CCTV footage to be disclosed in relation to a criminal investigation, CvSU may allow appropriate disclosure of CCTV footage to the authorized law enforcement agencies in connection with the latter's constitutional or statutory function, subject to the following:

 
 
 
 Law enforcement officers must provide a written statement, affirmative declaration, or equivalent to establish the lawfulness of the request; and

 The request for CCTV footage must be made following, and with strict adherence to, existing standard operating procedures in the conduct of an investigation and law enforcement operation as stated in the applicable rules and regulations of law enforcement agencies and other pertinent public authorities.

 

 
 b. Court Order. Requests for disclosure and use of CCTV footage and images by virtue of a lawful order of a court of competent authority may be granted provided there is a proper subpoena issued by the Court.

 c. Administrative investigations. The use of CCTV footage for purposes of an administrative investigation shall be allowed provided that the requesting party submits sufficient proof of the investigation being conducted or the pending complaint before an administrative body.

 d. Request from the media. The use of CCTV footage by the media shall only be allowed if there is lawful basis for processing under Sections 12 or 13 of the DPA or processing under a special case, specifically Section 4 (d) of the DPA. Written consent of the data subject/s must be obtained prior to disclosure.

  

 5. Denial of request. Requests for access to CCTV footage may be denied upon appropriate evaluation.

 a. The following are grounds for denial:

 
 
 
 Incomplete information regarding the requested CCTV footage, provided, that the data subject, their authorized representative, or third party is first given a reasonable opportunity to amend the request and provide complete information;

 The access request is frivolous or vexatious. The determination of what constitutes frivolous or vexatious may be made on the basis of the particular circumstances of the request;

 The purpose for and manner of viewing or obtaining a copy of the footage is contrary to law, morals, or public policy;

 The request to obtain a copy of the CCTV footage is disproportionate to the purpose stated by the requesting party;

 The burden or expense of providing access would be unreasonable or involve disproportionate effort on the part of the University;

 The footage has already been deleted by the time the University received the request pursuant to its documented retention policy; and

 If disclosure of the footage could put an ongoing criminal investigation at risk as determined by the appropriate public authority. For this purpose, the University should provide written proof of this determination.

 

 
 
 b. The University may only deny a request after giving the data subject or third party a reasonable opportunity to amend the request. Should the University deny a request for CCTV access, it shall provide the requesting party with the reason for the denial within five (5) working days from receipt of the request: provided, that the denial shall not serve as a bar for future requests by the same data subject or third party which complies with the requirements on the sufficiency of details on the requested footage.

 The determination of the reasonableness of the denial of a request shall be made upon the initiation of an investigation by the NPC or upon the filing of a complaint, pursuant to the NPC's Rules of Procedure.

----- DOC | College of Tourism and Hospitality Management Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-tourism-and-hospitality-management-officials/ | 2025-05-27 -----
Dr. Katherine D. Peren 

 Dean, College of Tourism and Hospitality Management
 Designation of CTHM Officials (AY 2024-2025) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Command Succession 1. Assist. Prof. Jennifer E. Barrientos

2. Assoc. Prof. Reizel G. Viray 

 
 Department Chair, Tourism Management

Budget Officer Assoc. Prof. Reizel G. Viray 

 
 Department Chair, Hospitality Management Assist. Prof. Jennifer E. Barrientos 

 
 College Secretary

Records Custodian Assist. Prof. Gaea N. Estravila 

 
 College Registrar Assist. Prof. Mary Grace M. Tibayan 

 
 Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator Assoc. Prof. Nancy C. Alaras 

 
 Guidance Coordinator Assos. Prof. Carmen A. Batiles 

 
 College Research and Extension Coordinator Assist. Prof. Lyneth B. Perez 

 
 Gender and Development Coordinator

Civil Security Officer

College Safety Officer and Compliance Officer for Privacy Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza 

 
 Linkages Coordinator

Canvasser

Job Placement Coordinator Assist. Prof. Jeffrey B. Aguila 

 
 Management Information System Officer

Sports and Socio-Cultural Development

GAD Alternate

Public Information Officer Mr. Ferdie S. Andulan 

 
 Laboratory Custodian

Pollution Control Officer Mr. Bernie G. Esguerra 

 
 Instructional Materials and Development Officer

Reading Room In-Charge Dr. Katherine D. Peren 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 27 May 2025.

----- DOC | College of Tourism and Hospitality Management | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-tourism-and-hospitality-management/ | 2025-05-27 -----
ABOUT CTHM 

 Cavite State University recognized the ongoing demand for tourism and hospitality and its advantageous location near Tagaytay City. To address this, the university introduced the Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management in 1994, followed by the BS Hotel and Restaurant Management Program in 1997, Diploma in Tourism Management in 1997, and the BS Tourism and Resort Management Program in 2003. These programs are offered by the College of Education. The programs have developed into the BS Hospitality Management (BSHM) and BS Tourism Management (BSTM) programs, respectively, in accordance with the standards outlined in CMO No. 62, series 2017. 

 The College of Tourism and Hospitality Management (CTHM) at Cavite State University began as a department under the College of Education, offering programs in Tourism and Hospitality. Over the years, it demonstrated growth in enrollment, academic performance, and industry engagement, prompting efforts toward establishing it as a separate college. 

 The College is composed of two departments, the Department of Hospitality Management and the Department of Tourism Management, to distinguish across programs, and is offering Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management and Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management, respectively. 

 This vision was realized on September 26, 2024, when the Board of Regents (BOR) approved the creation of CTHM as an independent college. Since then, CTHM has focused on enhancing its academic programs, expanding international partnerships, promoting faculty and student development, and strengthening community engagement. 

 Currently, the BSHM and BSTM programs have successfully completed thorough accreditation procedures. These programs have undertaken Level IV Phase 2 and Level III Phase 2 accreditation surveys conducted by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP) on November 8-10, 2023. In addition, on June 16, 2021, they obtained the Certificate of Program Compliance (COPC) from CHED, which further confirms their dedication to providing high-quality education and preparing graduates who can compete on a worldwide scale. The programs have established a reputation for quality due to their combined enrolment of more than two thousand students, highly skilled instructors, and numerous successes and accolades. 

 CTHM was been approved by the Board of Regents on September 26, 2024 and started operating as standalone college on January 6, 2025. 

  

 This page was last edited on 27 May 2025.

----- DOC | Technology in the Classroom | https://cvsu.edu.ph/technology-in-the-classroom/ | 2025-05-22 -----
Computer Equipped Teaching Spaces

 

 Computer Laboratory Room 
  

 

 Simulation, Modelling and Measurement Laboratory 
  

 Printing Services

 Library 
  

 Teaching Spaces with Modern with Modern Audiovisual Equipment

 

 iLab 
  

 

 CED AVR 
 Coworking and Meeting Spaces with Internet Access

 

 Board Room 
  

 

 Lasap Hall 
  

 CEIT Conference Room 
  

 

 ITSO Conference Room 
  

 Laboratory with Special Equipment

 

 Automation Lab 
 Connectivity for Hybrid Learning

 Network equipment at the Data Center which distributes the 500Mbps Dedicated Internet Access with the CvSU-Main Campus 
  

 Landing page for the CvSU E-learning System

----- DOC | Website Privacy Notice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-data-protection-officer/website-privacy-notice/ | 2025-03-04 -----
WEBSITE PRIVACY NOTICE 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) is committed to respect and value the privacy and rights of individuals in accordance with Republic Act No. 10173 or Data Privacy Act of 2012.  CvSU recognizes the confidentiality of personal data and adheres to the general principles of transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality. 

 This Privacy Notice outlines how CvSU collects, uses, and protects your personal information when you visit our website. By using this Site, you agree to the terms and conditions of this Privacy Notice. 

 Information We Collect and Use 

 When you visit our site we also collect Log Data, which includes but is not limited to: your IP address, the search words you used, the date and time you visited our site as well as the referring site/platform through which you accessed our site. This log data is collected to enable us to analyze web traffic and is not shared with third parties except when required by law or in response to legal processes. 

 Cookies 

 We also use cookies to personalize your online experience and to help make our website, applications and services better for you. You may manage your browser's cookie settings if you prefer not to accept them. 

 Your Data Protection Rights 

 CvSU recognizes and respects your right to be informed, to access, to correct or rectification, to erasure or blocking, and to object to the processing, as well as the right to damages and to lodge a complaint before the National Privacy Commission, as provided under the law. 

 Changes to this Privacy Notice 

 This Privacy Notice may be updated periodically.  We encourage you to review this page regularly to stay informed about how we are protecting your information. Your continued use of the website after reading this notice signifies your understanding and acceptance of its terms and implications under applicable laws and regulations. 

 Contact Us 

 If you have any questions about this Privacy Notice or our data practices, please contact us at: 

 The Data Protection Officer 

 Email Address: dpo@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | Procurement Monitoring Report 2024 2nd Semester | https://cvsu.edu.ph/procurement-monitoring-report-2024-2nd-semester/ | 2025-01-14 -----
CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – F164 & F101) Submission of FY 2024 2nd SEM PMR 

 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – IGP's F-161, F163 & TRUST) Submission of FY 2024 2nd Sem PMR 

 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – Projects) Submission of FY 2024  2nd Sem PMR 

 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Goods) Submission of  FY 2024  2nd Sem PMR 

 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Infra) Submission of  FY 2024  2nd   Sem PMR 

 

 CvSU Naic Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of  FY 2024  2nd   Sem PMR 

 

 CvSU Naic Campus (Public Bidding) Submission of FY 2024  2nd   Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Public Bidding) Submission of  FY 2024  2nd   Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of  FY 2024  2nd   Sem PMR

----- DOC | General Data Privacy Notice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-data-protection-officer/general-data-privacy-notice/ | 2024-11-28 -----
Cavite State University Privacy Notice 

 Welcome to Cavite State University. This Privacy Notice informs you about our policy regarding the data that we collect, store, process, and share including your personal data. If you are the parent or legal guardian of an applicant, a student who is minor (below 18 years old), understand that this Policy refers to the personal data of your child/ward. 

 It is our policy to respect and uphold data privacy rights and to ensure that all personal data collected from students, their parents or guardians are processed pursuant to the general principles of transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality as stated in the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) . 

 What data does CvSU collect, acquire, or generate? 

 Cavite State University collects including but not limited to the following Personal Data: 

 
 
 
 Personal details such as name, birth, gender, civil status, affiliations, address, signature and biometrics; 

 Contact information such as address, email, mobile and telephone numbers; 

 Academic information such as grades, course, and academic standing; 

 Employment information such as government-issued numbers, position and functions; 

 Applicant information such as academic background and previous employments; 

 Medical information such as physical, psychiatric, and psychological information. 

 

 
 How does CvSU use your personal data? 

 Cavite State University processes Personal Data to: 

 
 
 
 Perform its obligations, exercise its rights, and conduct its associated functions as: 
 
 An instrumentality of the government; 

 A higher education institution. 

 

 Pursue its purposes and mandates under Republic Act 8468 as a “State University 

 For each particular campus and unit of Cavite State University, conduct all acts reasonably foreseeable from and customarily performed by similar bodies; 

 Decide and act for the holistic welfare of its students, their parents and guardians, faculty, employees staff, researchers, alumni and community; and 

 Managing and administering its internal and external affairs as an academic and research institution with extension services, as an instrumentality of the government, and as a juridical entity with its own rights and interests. 

 

 
  

 Specifically, Cavite State University processes personal data for the following purposes: 

 
 
 
 Academic, research, extra-curricular, student welfare and disciplinary purposes; 

 Supervision of academic and researchers endeavors; 

 Management of human resources and supervision of work conduct; 

 Student and employee application processing and identity verification purposes; 

 Documentation and record-keeping purposes; 

 Medical, physical, psychiatric, and psychological attention purposes; 

 Alumni linkage, donation, and funding purposes; 

 Community service or extension activity purposes; 

 Contractual and financial purposes; 

 Regulatory, and audit purposes. 

 

 
  

 How does CvSU manage your information? 

 The University collects only personal data of data subjects that are necessary in the course of transaction with the University such as upon application of the student, faculty, staff or other personnel; or before the commencement of the engagement of the student, faculty and personnel. 

 The University collects Personal Data physically through printed forms, attachments and other documents requested by the University, its academic units, and its administrative officers. 

 The University may also collect Personal Data electronically through electronic forms, email, or inputting of information by the data subject or concerned faculty and administrative staff. 

  

 How will CvSU store and retain your personal data? 

 Personal Data are stored in physical and electronic data processing systems managed by various units and offices of Cavite State University. Physical records are generally stored in folders or envelopes in drawers or shelves. Electronic records are generally stored in servers in the possession or control of Cavite State University or cloud storage controlled by Cavite State University. 

 Personal Information shall only be retained as long as necessary to serve its declared purpose or comply with regulatory and legal requirements. Depending on the nature of data and purpose it serves, the retention period could range for days to years. The University shall adhere to the provision of the Archives of the Philippines Act of 2007 ( R.A. 9470) in the disposal of official public records containing personal information. 

  

 What are your Rights as the data subjects under the Data Privacy Law of 2012? 

 (a) Right to be informed, whether personal information pertaining to him or her shall be, are being or have been processed; 

 (b) Right to object to prevent the processing of your personal data, including processing for direct marketing, automated processing or profiling subject to CvSU's possible consequent failure to conduct academic, administrative and other functions or services 

 (c) Right to Access to, upon demand, the following: 

 (1) Contents of the data subject's personal information that were processed; 

 (2) Sources from which personal information were obtained; 

 (3) Names and addresses of recipients of the personal information; 

 (4) Manner by which such data were processed; 

 (5) Reasons for the disclosure of the personal information to recipients; 

 (6) Information on automated processes where the data will or likely to be made as the sole basis for any decision significantly affecting or will affect the data subject; 

 (7) Date when the data subject's personal information concerning the data subject were last accessed and modified; and 

 (8) The designation, or name or identity and address of the personal information controller; 

 (d) Right to Rectification or to dispute the inaccuracy or error in the personal information and have the personal information controller correct it immediately and accordingly, unless the request is vexatious or otherwise unreasonable. If the personal information have been corrected, the personal information controller shall ensure the accessibility of both the new and the retracted information and the simultaneous receipt of the new and the retracted information by recipients thereof: Provided, That the third parties who have previously received such processed personal information shall he informed of its inaccuracy and its rectification upon reasonable request of the data subject; 

 (e) Right to erasure or blocking of Personal Data. To suspend, withdraw or order the blocking, removal or destruction of his or her personal information from the personal information controller's filing system upon discovery and substantial proof that the personal information are incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained, used for unauthorized purposes or are no longer necessary for the purposes for which they were collected. In this case, the personal information controller may notify third parties who have previously received such processed personal information; and 

 (f) Right to Damages or be indemnified for any damages sustained due to such inaccurate, incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained or unauthorized use of personal information. 

 (g) Right to data portability or to be furnished a copy of personal data that the data subject provided to the University (in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format). 

  

  

 Should an employee, student, graduate, parent or guardian want further information about the way CvSU manages the personal information it holds, or wish to complain about breach of the Act, please contact CvSU's duly designated Data Privacy Officer: 

 Mailing Address: Legal Services Office, Administration Building, Cavite State University Main Campus, Indang Cavite 

 Email Address: dpo@cvsu.edu.ph 
 CvSU may, from time to time, make changes to this Policy. On such occasions, we will let you know through the website of the University, and, when permissible, other means of communication. Any modification is effective immediately upon posting on the website.

----- DOC | Office of the Data Protection Officer | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-data-protection-officer/ | 2024-11-28 -----
The Legal Services Office also serves as the office of the University's Data Protection Officer. We are committed to safeguarding personal data and ensuring compliance with data protection regulations. 

 
 Privacy Notice 
 
 
 General Data Privacy Notice 

 
 Data Privacy Notice for Employees 

 
 Data Privacy Notice for Students 

 

 Privacy Manual 

 Privacy Policies 

 Infographics Brochures & Infographics 

 Contact Us 
 
 If you have inquiries or concerns about Data Privacy of the University, you may email the University's Data Protection Officer at dpo@cvsu.edu.ph.

----- DOC | Legal Services Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/legal-services-office/ | 2024-11-28 -----
QUALITY OBJECTIVE 

 Legal Services Office strives to deliver comprehensive legal support and resources to the University's students, faculty and personnel in order to promote justice, and foster a supportive academic environment. We strive to educate the University community on legal rights and responsibilities while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 

 

  

 OUR SERVICES 

 
 Legal Consultation and Advisory 

 Contract Management 

 Handling Legal Disputes 

 Compliance and Risk Management 

 Student and Faculty Issues 

 Document Management 

 Policy Development and Implementation 

 Legal Training and Education 

 External Relations 

 Administrative Support 

 
 LEGAL CONSULTATION AND ADVISORY 

 Providing Counsel/Legal Opinion: Offering legal advice to university administrators, faculty, and staff on various legal issues of the University, including compliance, risk management, and policy interpretation. 

 CONTRACT MANAGEMENT 

 Drafting and Reviewing Contracts: Preparing, and reviewing contracts and agreements related to university operations, including internships, partnerships, procurement, and employment. 

 HANDLING LEGAL DISPUTES 

 Litigation Management: Overseeing and managing cases involving the university, including coordinating with external legal counsel (Office of the Solicitor General) 

 Dispute Resolution: Engaging in settlement negotiations and alternative dispute resolution processes whenever appropriate. 

 COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT SUPPORT 

 Regulatory Compliance: Ensuring the university complies with Philippine laws, as well as all government regulations and issuances (NPC, COA, DBM, CHED, GPPB, etc.) 

 Risk Assessment: Identifying and managing legal risks related to university operations, including developing strategies to mitigate potential liabilities. 

 STUDENT AND EMPLOYEE ISSUES 

 Disciplinary Actions: Addressing legal aspects of student disciplinary matters (in coordination with OSAS). 

 Employment Matters: Handling legal issues related to faculty and staff employment, including contracts, disputes, and disciplinary actions, including administrative cases (in coordination with HRDO). 

 DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT 

 Preparation and Review: Preparing and reviewing legal documents, including memos, briefs, and legal opinions. 

 Record Keeping: Maintaining accurate and confidential records of legal documents and correspondence 

 POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION 

 Policy Drafting: Assisting in drafting and revising university policies to ensure they are legally sound. 

 Policy Implementation: Supporting the implementation of new policies and ensuring they are communicated effectively within the university. 

 LEGAL TRAINING AND EDUCATION 

 Legal Training: Providing training sessions on legal issues such as compliance, data privacy laws, and contractual obligations. 

 Workshops and Seminars: Organizing educational initiatives and events to keep the university community informed about relevant legal topics. 

 EXTERNAL RELATIONS 

 Liaison with Authorities: Coordinating with government agencies, regulatory bodies, and other external entities on legal and compliance matters. 

 ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 

 Meeting Coordination: Scheduling and attending meetings related to legal matters and providing administrative support for legal processes. 

 Correspondence Management: Handling legal correspondence, including letters, emails, and official communications pertaining to legal matters. 

 NOTARIAL SERVICES 

 Drafting and Notarization of various documents (COS, Affidavits, Deeds of Sale, Contract of Lease, etc.) 

  

 CONTACT US 

 Office Address: Legal Services Office, Second Floor Administration Building
Cavite State University Main Campus, Indang. Cavite

Phone Local: 1019

Email: legalservicesoffice@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | Resolution Passed During Board Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-board-secretary/resolution-passed-during-board-meeting/ | 2024-10-13 -----
RESOLUTIONS PASSED DURING THE 102ND REGULAR MEETING OF THE CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON OCTOBER 17, 2025, 02:00 P.M. AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLR., ADMINISTRATION BLDG., CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions-passed-102nd-BOR-Meeting 
 
 RESOLUTIONS PASSED DURING THE SPECIAL BOARD MEETING OF THE CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2025, 10:00 A.M. AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLR., ADMINISTRATION BLDG., CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions-passed-Special-BOR-Meeting (September 19, 2025) 
 
 101ST REGULAR MEETING OF THE CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON JULY 11, 2025, 10:00 A.M., AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLOOR ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions-passed-101st-BOR-Meeting 
 
 100TH REGULAR MEETING OF THE CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON APRIL 28, 2025, 100 P.M., AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLOOR ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions passed - 100th BOR Meeting-1 
 
 99TH REGULAR MEETING OF THE CVSU BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON DECEMBER 20, 2024 AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLOOR, ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions passed - 99th BOR Meeting 
  

 
 98TH REGULAR MEETING OF THE CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY BOARD OF REGENTS HELD ON SEPTEMBER 26, 2024, 10:00 A.M., AT THE BOARDROOM, 2ND FLOOR ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS, INDANG, CAVITE

 Resolutions passed - 98th BOR Meeting 
  

 
 97th Regular Meeting of the CvSU Board of Regents Held on April 23, 2024, 10:00 A.M., at the Boardroom, Administration Building, Cavite State University Main Campus, Indang, Cavite

 Resolutions passed - 97th BOR Meeting 
  

 
 96th Regular Meeting of the CvSU Board of Regents Held on December 15, 2023 at the Boardroom, 2nd Floor, Administration Building, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite

 Resolutions passed - 96th BOR Meeting 
  

 
 95th Regular Meeting of the CvSU Board of Regents Held on 19 October 2023 at Batangas State University, Batangas City

 Resolutions passed - 95th BOR Meeting 
  

 
 94th Regular Meeting of the CvSU Board of Regents Held on MAY 26, 2023, 10:00 A.M. AT THE CHED CENTRAL OFFICE EXECUTIVE

LOUNGE 4TH FLOOR, C. P. GARCIA AVENUE, DILIMAN, QUEZON CITY

 Resolutions passed - 94th BOR Meeting

----- DOC | Office of the Board Secretary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-board-secretary/ | 2024-10-13 -----
About Office of the Board Secretary 

 The Office of the Board Secretary takes charge of the communications in the University/Board including those that relate to endorsements to the Board, requests for meetings and schedules, referenda, and other University endorsements to the Board.

----- DOC | Cavite State University Privacy Notice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cavite-state-university-privacy-notice/ | 2024-09-11 -----
Welcome to Cavite State University. This Privacy Notice informs you about our policy regarding the data that we collect, store, process, and share including your personal data. If you are the parent or legal guardian of an applicant, a student who is minor (below 18 years old), understand that this Policy refers to the personal data of your child/ward.

 It is our policy to respect and uphold data privacy rights and to ensure that all personal data collected from students, their parents or guardians are processed pursuant to the general principles of transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality as stated in the Data Privacy Act of 2012 (DPA) . 

   

 What data does CvSU collect, acquire, or generate? 

 Cavite State University collects including but not limited to the following Personal Data:

 
 Personal details such as name, birth, gender, civil status, affiliations, address, signature and biometrics;

 Contact information such as address, email, mobile and telephone numbers;

 Academic information such as grades, course, and academic standing;

 Employment information such as government-issued numbers, position and functions;

 Applicant information such as academic background and previous employments;

 Medical information such as physical, psychiatric, and psychological information.

 
   

 How does CvSU use your personal data? 

 Cavite State University processes Personal Data to:

 
 Perform its obligations, exercise its rights, and conduct its associated functions as:
 
 An instrumentality of the government;

 A higher education institution.

 

 Pursue its purposes and mandates under Republic Act 8468 as a “State University 

 For each particular campus and unit of Cavite State University, conduct all acts reasonably foreseeable from and customarily performed by similar bodies;

 Decide and act for the holistic welfare of its students, their parents and guardians, faculty, employees staff, researchers, alumni and community; and

 Managing and administering its internal and external affairs as an academic and research institution with extension services, as an instrumentality of the government, and as a juridical entity with its own rights and interests.

 
  

 Specifically, Cavite State University processes personal data for the following purposes:

  

 
 
 
 Academic, research, extra-curricular, student welfare and disciplinary purposes;

 Supervision of academic and researchers endeavors;

 Management of human resources and supervision of work conduct;

 Student and employee application processing and identity verification purposes;

 Documentation and record-keeping purposes;

 Medical, physical, psychiatric, and psychological attention purposes;

 Alumni linkage, donation, and funding purposes;

 Community service or extension activity purposes;

 Contractual and financial purposes;

 Regulatory, and audit purposes.

 

 
  

  

 How does CvSU manage your information? 

  

 The University collects only personal data of data subjects that are necessary in the course of transaction with the University such as upon application of the student, faculty, staff or other personnel; or before the commencement of the engagement of the student, faculty and personnel.

 The University collects Personal Data physically through printed forms, attachments and other documents requested by the University, its academic units, and its administrative officers.

 The University may also collect Personal Data electronically through electronic forms, email, or inputting of information by the data subject or concerned faculty and administrative staff.

  

 How will CvSU store and retain your personal data? 

  

 Personal Data are stored in physical and electronic data processing systems managed by various units and offices of Cavite State University. Physical records are generally stored in folders or envelopes in drawers or shelves. Electronic records are generally stored in servers in the possession or control of Cavite State University or cloud storage controlled by Cavite State University.

 Personal Information shall only be retained as long as necessary to serve its declared purpose or comply with regulatory and legal requirements. Depending on the nature of data and purpose it serves, the retention period could range for days to years. The University shall adhere to the provision of the Archives of the Philippines Act of 2007 ( R.A. 9470) in the disposal of official public records containing personal information.

  

  

 What are your Rights as the data subjects under the Data Privacy Law of 2012? 

  

 (a) Right to be informed, whether personal information pertaining to him or her shall be, are being or have been processed;

 (b) Right to object to prevent the processing of your personal data, including processing for direct marketing, automated processing or profiling subject to CvSU's possible consequent failure to conduct academic, administrative and other functions or services

 (c) Right to Access to, upon demand, the following:

 (1) Contents of the data subject's personal information that were processed;

 (2) Sources from which personal information were obtained;

 (3) Names and addresses of recipients of the personal information;

 (4) Manner by which such data were processed;

 (5) Reasons for the disclosure of the personal information to recipients;

 (6) Information on automated processes where the data will or likely to be made as the sole basis for any decision significantly affecting or will affect the data subject;

 (7) Date when the data subject's personal information concerning the data subject were last accessed and modified; and

 (8) The designation, or name or identity and address of the personal information controller;

  

 (d) Right to Rectification or to dispute the inaccuracy or error in the personal information and have the personal information controller correct it immediately and accordingly, unless the request is vexatious or otherwise unreasonable. If the personal information have been corrected, the personal information controller shall ensure the accessibility of both the new and the retracted information and the simultaneous receipt of the new and the retracted information by recipients thereof: Provided, That the third parties who have previously received such processed personal information shall he informed of its inaccuracy and its rectification upon reasonable request of the data subject;

 (e) Right to erasure or blocking of Personal Data. To suspend, withdraw or order the blocking, removal or destruction of his or her personal information from the personal information controller's filing system upon discovery and substantial proof that the personal information are incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained, used for unauthorized purposes or are no longer necessary for the purposes for which they were collected. In this case, the personal information controller may notify third parties who have previously received such processed personal information; and

 (f) Right to Damages or be indemnified for any damages sustained due to such inaccurate, incomplete, outdated, false, unlawfully obtained or unauthorized use of personal information.

 (g) Right to data portability or to be furnished a copy of personal data that the data subject provided to the University (in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format).

  

  

 Should an employee, student, graduate, parent or guardian want further information about the way CvSU manages the personal information it holds, or wish to complain about breach of the Act, please contact CvSU's duly designated Data Privacy Officer:

 Mailing Address: Legal Services Office, Administration Building, Cavite State University Main Campus, Indang Cavite

  

 Email Address: dpo@cvsu.edu.ph 

  

 CvSU may, from time to time, make changes to this Policy. On such occasions, we will let you know through the website of the University, and, when permissible, other means of communication. Any modification is effective immediately upon posting on the website.

  

 This page was last edited on 10 September 2024.

----- DOC | University Calendar AY 2023-2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-calendar-ay-2023-2024/ | 2024-09-09 -----
First Semester AY 2023-2024 

 

 
 
 
 Second Semester AY 2023-2024 

 

  

 
 
 
 MIDYEAR 2024 

 

 
 UNIVERSITY CALENDAR AY 2022-2023 

 This page was last edited on 11 October 2023.

----- DOC | Procurement Monitoring Report 2024 1st Semester | https://cvsu.edu.ph/procurement-monitoring-report-2024-1st-semester/ | 2024-07-10 -----
CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – F164 & F101) Submission of FY 2024 1st SEM PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – IGP's F-161, F163 & TRUST) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – Projects) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Goods) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Infra) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Naic Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Naic Campus (Public Bidding) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Public Bidding) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of FY 2024 1st Sem PMR

----- DOC | CEIT Quality Objectives | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ceit-quality-objectives/ | 2023-10-16 -----
Quality Objectives 

 The College of Engineering and Information Technology exhibits: 

 C ommitment as we strive to exceed expectations in everything we do, whether it's in instruction, research, or extension activities; 

 E xcellence as our standard in delivering our products and services, fostering a culture of competence to our community; 

 I ntegrity in the core of our values, guiding us to act with honesty and transparency, and maintain the highest ethical standards in our global competitiveness efforts; and 

 T eamwork to leverage the collective strength of our dedicated employees to achieve quality, and promote continuous improvement initiatives. 

  

 This page was last edited on 16 October 2023.

----- DOC | College of Medicine Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-medicine-officials/ | 2023-09-14 -----
Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez 

 Dean, College of Medicine
 Designation of COM Officials (April 2025 to January 2026) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Assistant Dean

ARTA Focal Person

College Job Placement Dr. Gerald B. Natanauan 

 
 College Secretary

Research and Development Coordinator Dr. Abigail L. Rodriguez 

 
 Chairperson, Clinical Science Department

Clerkship Coordinator Dr. Bethlehem C. Mula-Natanauan 

 
 Chairperson, Basic Science Department

Public Information Officer Dr. Katherine Gianne O. Saure 

 
 Chairman, Public Health and Population Medicine Department

Community Coordinator *TBD (to be designated) 

 
 Physical and Laboratory Resource Coordinator

Extension Service Coordinator

Property Custodian Dr. Annie M. Ramos 

 
 Management Information Officer

Knowledge Management Coordinator *TBD (to be designated) 

 
 Community Coordinator

GAD Coordinator Dr. Majorie Ann M. Mahusay 

 
 Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator

Budget Officer Dr. Sheila Arelli G. Safra 

 
 College Registrar

Guidance Counseling Coordinator Ms. Marie Eugenie A. Plantilla 

 
 Compliance Officer for Data Privacy

College Human Resource Officer Ms. Sophia Grace S. Taruc 

 
 Assistant Community Coordinator

Pollution Control Coordinator Ms. Malou Jolito 

 
 Canvasser

Property Inspector Ms. Marichoe Roduta 

 
 Civil Security and Safety Officer

Sports and Socio-Cultural Development Officer

GAD Alternate Ms. Fatima Fadero 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 28 May 2025.

----- DOC | University Calendar AY 2022-2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-calendar-ay-2022-2023/ | 2023-09-01 -----
First Semester AY 2022-2023 

 

 
 
 
 Second Semester AY 2022-2023 

 

  

 
 
 
 MIDYEAR 2023 

 

  

 This page was last edited on 13 February 2023.

----- DOC | Awarded Projects Archived | https://cvsu.edu.ph/awarded-projects-archived/ | 2023-08-30 -----
Awarded Projects Archived 

 2023 

 
 
 
 Project Title NOA Contract/PO NTP 

 
 
 
 Repair and Improvement of Kitchen and Food Delivery Area at Hostel Tropicana 

 
 Repair and Improvement of Guest Rooms at Lower Ground Floor of International House 1 

 
 Improvement of Bacoor Campus (Construction of Wall Partition at Fourth Floor) 

 
 
 
 2021 

 
 
 
 PO NUMBER PROJECT TITLE AMOUNT SUPPLIER 

 
 
 
 2021-01-001C SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF LABORATORY SUPPLIES FOR OVPRE-NEWTON Fund/DA-Biotech Project 89,700.00
 BIOTRIUNE, INC 

 
 2021-01-019A Supply and Delivery of ICT Equipment and Accessories for the University Library 122,000.00
 Sandicho Trading 

 
 2021-01-023 SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF ANIMAL FEEDS FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION 81,824.58
 CAVITE FARMERS FEEDMILLING AND MARKETING COOPERATIVE 

 
 2021-01-031 Supply and Delivery of Materials for Repainting of Whitehouse 55,003.00
 R.C. Ramirez Enterprises 

 
 2021-01-033 REPAIR AND IMPROVEMENT OF OLD GATE AT PPS 80,830.00
 R.C. RAMIREZ ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-01-039A SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF LABORATORY SUPPLIES FOR OVPRE-DA-Biotech Project (Coffee Forensic) 11,325.00
 MARS LABORATORY INSTRUMENTS CENTER 

 
 2021-01-039C SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF LABORATORY SUPPLIES FOR OVPRE-DA-Biotech Project (Coffee Forensic) 12,620.00
 GOLDEN BAT (FAR EAST) INC. 

 
 2021-01-039F SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF LABORATORY SUPPLIES FOR OVPRE-DA-Biotech Project (Coffee Forensic) 13,656.00
 STARLAB MEDICAL & SCIENTIFIC APPARATUS SUPPLY 

 
 2021-01-056A Supply and Delivery of Laboratory Supplies and Equipment for CAS 151,500.00
 Mt. Zion Scientific Inc. 

 
 2021-01-057C SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF COMMON OFFICE SUPPLIES FOR OVPRE- OVPRE-HECTOR Project 24,410.00
 YUCHI ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-02-062 Supply and Delivery of Equipment for Hydraulics for CEIT 779,000.00
 Velca Equipment & Engineered Products, Inc 

 
 2021-02-065 Supply and Delivery of Materials for Repair and Improvement of Old Carport at PPS 357,591.00
 R.C. Ramirez Enterprises 

 
 2021-02-071 Supply and Delivery of Desktop Computer for CEIT 917,990.00
 JONECO TECH MARKETING CORP 

 
 2021-02-072 Supply and Delivery of ICT Equipment for ODA 132,900.00
 MicroGold Information Solution & Products, Inc 

 
 2021-02-083 Supply and Delivery of Materials for Repainting of Ecumenical Chapel 122,891.00
 R.C. Ramirez Enterprises 

 
 2021-02-087A Supply and Delivery of Office Equipment for CCJ 19,300.00
 MicroGold Information Solution & Products, Inc 

 
 2021-02-106A Supply and Delivery of Various Supplies and Equipment for GAD-RC 558,258.00
 Joneco Tech. Marketing Corp 

 
 2021-03-118 Supply and Delivery of Aircondition Units 984,600.00
 Biznovate Enterprises Co 

 
 2021-03-123 Supply and Delivery of 3TR Ceiling Mounted Aircon Unit with Installation at BAC Office 139,700.00
 Servpro Consolidated Inc. 

 
 2021-03-144 Supply and Delivery of Office Equipment for CON 52,000.00
 American Technologies, Inc 

 
 2021-03-149A Supply and Delivery of Materials for Improvement of Imus Campus 42,480.00
 Henry Pagkaliwangan Construction 

 
 2021-03-155 Supply and Delivery of Various Machinery and Equipment for CED 858,800.00
 Haobartly Commercial Corporation 

 
 2021-09-520 Supply and Delivery of Materials for Construction of Concrete Signage with Landscaping 175,701.00
 R.C. RAMIREZ ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-09-533 Supply and Delivery of Fire Fighting Equipment 49,300.00
 DACRISDEEK ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-09-540 Supply and Delivery of Computer and Printers 172,350.00
 MICROGOLD INFORMATION SOLUTION AND PRODUCTS, INC. 

 
 2021-09-541 Supply and Delivery of Laptop 319,900.00
 NAPSCEA JEWELRY AND METAL CRAFT 

 
 2021-09-542A Supply and Delivery of Ink and Toners 280,120.00
 ANDJ BRIGHT PRINTING SERVICES 

 
 2021-09-542B Supply and Delivery of Ink and Toners 12,100.00
 LUNARCHEM TRADING 

 
 2021-09-543 Supply, Delivery and Installation of Office Partition 163,300.00
 OFFICELUX INTERIOR 

 
 2021-09-550 Supply and Delivery of ICT Equipment for PhilCAFE Project 56,100.00
 JONECO TECH MARKETING CORP. 

 
 2021-09-554 Supply and Delivery of ICT Equipment for Research Center 153,080.00
 JONECO TECH MARKETING CORP. 

 
 2021-10-556 Supply and Delivery of Materials for Improvement of 3-Span Secondary Line from CVMBS to Air Quality Monitoring Station 165,495.00
 AJLR ELECTRICAL SUPPLY 

 
 2021-10-558 Supply and Delivery of Christmas Decors 96,867.00
 R.C. RAMIREZ ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-10-565 Supply and Delivery of Executive Chair and Filing Cabinet 54,686.00
 OFFICELUX INTERIOR 

 
 2021-10-573 TRANSMITTER / RECEIVER SYSTEM 994,500.00
 HYTEC POWER INC 

 
 2021-10-577B Supply and Delivery of Supplies and Materials 101,080.10
 NAPSCEA ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-10-583A Supply and Delivery of Supplies and Materials 27,125.00
 JM IBAÑEZ ENTERPRISE 

 
 2021-10-583B Supply and Delivery of Supplies and Materials 196,795.00
 RCJ TRADING AND GENERAL MERCHANDISE 

 
 2021-10-583C Supply and Delivery of Supplies and Materials 18,320.00
 BAN BEE COMMERCIAL CO., INC. 

 
 2021-10-585 Supply and Delivery of Carpentry and Electrical Supplies and Equipment 306,585.00
 JETHRO MARKETING 

 
 2021-10-591 Supply and Delivery of Laptop for Patent Mining Project 133,598.00
 AVID SALES CORPORATION 

 
 2021-10-595 Supply and Delivery of Printer for Imus Campus 100,080.00
 NAPSCEA ENTERPRISES 

 
 2021-10-597 Supply and Delivery fo Feeds 98,426.30
 CAVITE FARMERS FEEDMILLING AND MARKETING COOPERATIVE 

 
 2021-10-599 Supply and Delivery of ICT Equipment, Accessories and Peripherals for Adoption and Implementation of GoTrace Web App 179,900.00
 MICROGOLD INFORMATION SOLUTION AND PRODUCTS, INC.

----- DOC | ILCLO Updates | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ilclo-updates/ | 2023-08-01 -----
CvSU hosts Covenant of Understanding Ceremonial Signing with PhilCanEDUCON 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) hosted the Covenant of Understanding Ceremonial Signing with the Philippine-Canada Education Consortium (PhilCanEDUCON) for International Collaborative Partnerships on Innovations for Inclusive Global Engagements at the CvSU Hostel Tropicana, December 9, 2025.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 UK envoy visits CvSU to tackle education, research opportunities 
 

 

 

 

 British Ambassador to the Philippines Laure Beaufils, together with the British Council Philippines, visited Cavite State University (CvSU) on February 21 to share education and research opportunities in the United Kingdom (UK) for students, educators, and policymakers.

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU, UNWAHAS conduct multidisciplinary lecture series on ASEAN perspective 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) and partner institution Universitas Wahid Hasyim ([UNWAHAS] Wahid Hasyim University Indonesia) held a three-day conference titled “Cultural Confluences: A Multidisciplinary Lecture Series on ASEAN Perspective,” November…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOA Signing between Cavite State University – College of Medicine and Local Government Unit – RHU Indang 
 

 

 

 

 Aiming to improve the health status of nearby communities of the university, the Cavite State University (CvSU) – College of Medicine (COM) and the Local Government Unit of Indang inked…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ceremonial MOU and MOA signing for OJT between Cavite State University and Camarines Norte State College. 
 

 

 

 

 Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding and Memorandum of Agreement signing for OJT between Cavite State University and Camarines Norte State College. This notable event signifies powerful collaboration which the parties will…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOU between Cavite State University and Beijing Phihua International Education Technology Co., Ltd based in China 
 

 

 

 

 Memorandum of Understanding between Cavite State University and Beijing Phihua International Education Technology Co., Ltd based in China. The ceremonial MOU Signing was spearheaded by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOU signing Between Cavite State University and Meta Animals Technologies, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 Memorandum of Understanding signing Between Cavite State University and Meta Animals Technologies, Inc. The ceremony was led by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Abel Manalo, the…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ceremonial MOU signing between Cavite State University and Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc 
 

 

 

 

 Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc. Cavite State University will shine even more as the university begins another collaboration with…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU inks MOA with Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. 
 

 

 

 

 The ceremony was led by Prof. Ma Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office and the signing was headed by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ceremonial MOA Signing between Cavite State University (CvSU) and Metro Pacific Tollways Corporation (MPTC). 
 

 

 

 

 Ceremonial Memorandum of Agreement Signing between Cavite State University (CvSU) and Metro Pacific Tollways Corporation (MPTC). The partnership seeks to effectively implement the MPTC Scholarship Program which aims to provide…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virtual MOU signing between CvSU-CVMBS and Obihiro University of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine 
 

 

 

 

 Earlier today, a virtual Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signing was held between Cavite State University- College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) represented by the University President, DR. HERNANDO…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network 
 

 

 

 

 Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network. The MOU was signed by President Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Violeta A. Lopez, President…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) 
 

 

 

 

 Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), a British company specializing in analyzing higher education institutions worldwide, rated 𝘾𝙫𝙎𝙐 𝙖 3-𝙨𝙩𝙖𝙧 𝙐𝙣𝙞𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙞𝙩𝙮. “A university with a Three Star rating is well-recognised nationally and may…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOU Signing between CvSU and Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (KAHE) 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University has established a new international partnership with Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (KAHE), based in India, through a virtual ceremony of Memorandum of Understanding signing. Dr. Venkatachalapathy,…

 
 Read More

----- DOC | Maragondon Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/maragondon-campus-officials/ | 2023-06-26 -----
Dr. Jonathan R. Digma 

 Principal, CvSU Maragondon Campus 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Kindergarten Adviser,

Childhood Education Innovation In-charge Ms. Eberly O. Caraan 

 
 Grade 1 Adviser,

Campus Secretary Ms. Jennifer E. Espineli 

 
 Grade 2 Adviser, Campus Extension Coordinator,

Science Laboratory Room In-charge Ms. Jeannylee B. Mendoza 

 
 Grade 3 Adviser

Computer Laboratory Room In-charge Ms. Mary Ann P. Visitacion 

 
 Grade 4 Adviser

Campus Management Information System Officer Ms. Flexie Joi D. Climacosa 

 
 Grade 5 Adviser

Gender & Development Coordinator Ms. Rosalie V. Manarang 

 
 Grade 6 Adviser

Elementary Department Chair Ms. Anniebeth D. Reyes 

 
 Grade 7 Adviser

Campus Management Information System Officer Mr. Jeric D. Climacosa 

 
 Grade 8 Adviser

High School Department Chair Ms. Florablle Oddette M. Granados 

 
 Grade 9 Adviser

Campus Research Coordinator Ms. Jenalyn Barajas 

 
 Grade 10 Adviser

Campus Public Information Officer

Alumni Coordinator Mr. Ryan S. Malimban 

 
 Subject Teacher

Campus Budget and Resource

Generation Officer

Reading Room In-charge Ms. Chona F. Mendoza 

 
 Subject Teacher

Gender & Development Coordinator Mr. Virgilio Jr. B. Porton 

 
 Campus Registrar

Guidance Counselor

Inspector

ARTA Focal Person Ms. Reah-lou B. Basco 

 
 Campus Nurse Ms. Roxanne Camille A. Legaspi 

 
 Campus Property Custodian Ms. Cecilia L. Malaluan

Mr. Terry Joseph Tomamac Jr.

Mr. Rudy Jr. E. Hipa 

 
 Campus Security Guards Mr. Celestino P. Moriente

Mr. Ralph Randy T. Mojica 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 26 June 2023.

----- DOC | About | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ilclo-about/ | 2023-06-01 -----
INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL COLLABORATION AND LINKAGES OFFICE 

 Functions of the International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office:

 
 Act as the clearing house for local and international MOUs and MOAs for endorsement to the Administrative Council and Board of Regents;

 Identify and discuss issues to the Executive Council that may impact on University's Internationalization Strategy;

 Respond to proposals referred by Colleges/Campuses that relate to local and international linkages;

 Ensure transfer of information, knowledge and identification of linkages in both local and international to the Academic Council of Colleges and Campuses;

 Provide forum for the development and exchange of good practices in international and local activities;

 Serve as liaison officer in relation to local and international research and academic collaboration with other agencies; and

 Manage all communication/ documents in relation to student and faculty exchanges, study visit and the like between and among academic partners.

 
 

  

 

 

 CONTACT US

 

 Email: iclo@cvsu.edu.ph 

 FB page: https://www.facebook.com/CvSUILCLO

----- DOC | Creation of ILCLO | https://cvsu.edu.ph/creation-of-ilclo/ | 2023-06-01 -----
International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office was created from the Board Resolution No. 8, series of 2019. 

 This is a resolution approving the proposed restructuring of the Office of the University President.

----- DOC | Carmona Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/carmona-campus-officials/ | 2023-05-18 -----
Dr. Cristina M. Signo 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Carmona Campus 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Chair, Department of Industrial and Information Technology

Program Coordinator, BSIT Dr. Regene G. Hernandez 

 
 Chair, Department of Management Dr. Michael G. Consignado 

 
 Chair, Department of Teacher Education

Program Coordinator, BSE Prof. Jocelyn B. Siochi 

 
 Chair, Department of Arts and Sciences

Campus Pollution Officer/ In-charge, Science Laboratory Prof. Shiela L. Vidallon 

 
 Campus Faculty Researcher Prof. Lea Marissa S. Domingo 

 
 Head, OSAS

Coordinator, Student Development Services/ Guidance Office/ NSTP Ron Erik C. Frontuna 

 
 Coordinator, Scholarship and Student Welfare/ Admission and Testing Services/ GAD Alternate Leonard V. Paunil 

 
 Coordinator, Research Services/ Knowledge Management Unit Carlo Emil B. Mañabo 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Services Janine B. Bacosmo 

 
 Campus Registrar Joseph E. Cuarez 

 
 Coordinator, Campus Planning and Development Office

Program Coordinator, BSBM Maria Andrea C. Francia 

 
 Campus Secretary/ Budget Officer Rochelle C. Malabayabas 

 
 Head, Instructional Materials Development Unit

Program Coordinator, BSHM Dr. Joan L. Fortuna 

 
 Campus Inspector for Equipment, Supplies, and Service

Program Coordinator, BSCS Joe Marlou A. Opella 

 
 Coordinator, Job Plaacement Jhumel C. Ignas 

 
 Coordinator, Physical Plant Services/ Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Officer/ Sports Coordinator

Program Coordinator, BSCpE Mark Anthony R. Abril 

 
 Coordinator, On-the-Job Training Jhumel C. Ignas 

 
 Coordinator, MIS/ Public Assistance Office/ R&E Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Richard L. Hernandez 

 
 Coordinator, Human Resource Development Office/ Records Officer/ Payroll Officer Diana H. Cortez 

 
 Coordinator, Quality Assurance and Accreditation Office Robert Jan R. Bayan 

 
 Coordinator, Business Affairs (Resource Generation)/ Co-Budget Officer Antonino L. Bayson 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Developement Dr. Gretchen Mcaranas 

 
 In-Charge, Campus Newsletter

Coordinator, Student Discipline Ronlie Rj A. Espeleta 

 
 Coordinator, International and Local Collaboration and Linkages/ Security Services Jonell V. Ocampo 

 
 Coordinator, Alumni Affairs Yolanda L. Satiada 

 
 Campus Canvasser Ronald Julius R. Mendoza 

 
 Campus Supply Officer/ Property Custodian Raymond T. Uminga 

 
 Campus Liaison Officer Laurente Alan C. Grafilo 

 
 Campus Collecting and Disbursement Officer/ Cashier Minerva M. Radam 

 
 Coordinator, Health Services/ Campus Nurse Kris C. Alforte 

 
 In-Charge, Campus Library Brendalyn O. Guinoban 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 18 May 2023.

----- DOC | CED Faculty | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ced-faculty/ | 2023-05-04 -----
College of Education Faculty 

 

 
 
 
 Name Highest Educational Attainment 

 
 
 
 Teacher Education Department

 

 
 Andrada, Ma. Cecilia Atas Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management 

 
 Artatez, Adessa Emelo Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management 

 
 Bacos, Reimary Jane Retirado Master of Arts in English as a Second Language 

 
 Bagalan, Greta Garcia Master of Arts in Education Major in Educational Administration 

 
 Bulan, John Erickson Ramos Master of Arts in Education Major in Social Studies (CAR) 

 
 Camarse, Manuel Garcia Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Psychology 

 
 Casalme, Kristine Mae Caraan Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management (CAR) 

 
 Cerdon, Harold Sabater Master of Arts in Education major in Special Education 

 
 Collantes, Aila Joy Madlansacay Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Management (Units) 

 
 Costa, Liza Costa Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Psychology 

 
 Crizaldo, Rhodora Suarez Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Linguistics 

 
 Custacio, Lorena A. Doctor in Educational Management 

 
 Dacara, Jerra Mae Taguba Master ng Sining sa Edukasyong Pangwika sa Filipino 

 
 Dalaten, Grace Arrieta Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management 

 
 De Leon, Jandee Atienza Doctor of Philosophy Major in Educational Management (Units) 

 
 Diokno, Richel Panganiban Doctor of Education in Early Childhood Education (Units) 

 
 Dulino, Evelyn Dagohoy Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Managment 

 
 Erni, Josie Dimapilis MAEd major in Administration and Supervision, MAEd Major in Special Education 

 
 Feleo, Zarina Almazar Master of Education major in Guidance and Counseling 

 
 Feranil, Alex Jr. L. MAEd major in Administration and Supervision Specializing in English 

 
 Ferrer, Ammie Peñalba Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Science Education (Chemistry) 

 
 Gasga, Jon-Jon Alvaran Masters in Business Education (On-going) 

 
 Goco, Aldrin Terrence Admana Master of Arts in English Language Teaching (CAR) 

 
 Grueso, Evelyn Fontalba Doctor of Philosophy in Curriculum and Instruction 

 
 Guevara, Julie Salazar Doctor of Education major in Curriculum and Instruction 

 
 Guinsisana, Kevin Pereña Master of Business Administration 

 
 Iyaya, Daven Bedruz Master of Arts in Education major in Mathematics 

 
 Labriaga, Prosela Marie Verano Masters of Arts in Education major in Special Education (Units) 

 
 Maniacop, Jason Ruiz Master of Education in Special Education 

 
 Mendoza, Janelle Palomares Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Management 

 
 Mendoza, Jobelle Aure Master of Arts in Education major in Mathematics (Units) 

 
 Mojica, Maria Belen Costa Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Management 

 
 Monahan, Princess Leanne Mae Varias Master of Arts in Education major in Educational Management (CAR) 

 
 Niepes, John Reck Lizano Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Management (Units) 

 
 Nuestro, Giecel Ferrer Master of Arts in Education major in Guidance and Counseling (Units) 

 
 Obniala, Alvin Villanueva Master of Arts in Education major in Administration and Supervision 

 
 Prades, Ma.Jenelle Cumabig MAEd Educational Management/ MAEd Administration and Supervision (Units) 

 
 Quilatan, Maricor Bibiano Master of Arts in Education major in Administration and Supervision (Units) 

 
 Reyes, Jane Javines Doctor of Philosphy in Education major in Early Childhood Education 

 
 Ricamata, Noel Nico Bucles Master of Arts in Education major in Social Science Education 

 
 Rolle, April Nonay Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management (Units) 

 
 Romera, Michael Papa Doctor of Philosophy major in Educational Management 

 
 Sahot, Ligaya Laurino Master of Arts in Education major in Educational Management 

 
 Surban, Anapearl Bachelor of Elementary Education major in Early Childhood Education 

 
 Tan, Maria Jovylyn Maala MA in English as a Second Language (Units), MA in Educational Management (CAR) 

 
 Tuazon, Agnes Salvador Master of Arts in Education major in Curriculum and Instruction 

 
 Umandap, Diana Bermundo Doctor of Education in Educational Management (CAR) 

 
 Venzon, Alfredo Acbang Master of Arts in Education major in Administration and Supervision 

 
 Villa, Robert Leonor Master of Arts In Education major in Administration and Supervision (Units) 

 
 Home Economics, Vocational and Technical Education Department 

 
 Aguila, Jeffrey Bari Doctor of Philosophy in Management (CAR) 

 
 Alano, Jimmel Ingente Master of Arts in Teaching Major in Food Technology 

 
 Alaras, Nancy Crucillo DBM HM (CAR) 

 
 Alcantara, Rowel Capsa MSITHM major in Travel and Tourism Operations 

 
 Andulan, Ferdie Sabado Doctor of Philiosophy in Management (Units) 

 
 Aquino, Gianina Nonieca Pellazar Master in International Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Baluyot, Kristine Buenconsejo Master in International Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Barrientos, Jennifer Erazo PhD IHM (Candidate) 

 
 Batiles, Carmen Alegre Doctor of Business Management with specialization in Hospitality Management (CAR) 

 
 Buhay, Paulyn Jayziell Sanchez Doctor in Tourism and Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Carlum, Gemalyn Jugo Master in Management - Major in Internation Tourism and Hospitality Management 

 
 Credito, Kayerelle Aledia BS Tourism Management 

 
 Darvin, Charlene Ernie Master of Science in Tourism Management (Units) 

 
 Digma, Patricia Camille Malimban Master in International Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Esguerra, Marites Novero AB English 

 
 Estravila, Gaea Nieves Master in International Travel and Tourism Management (MITTM) 

 
 Gallego, Khaleel Pearl Costelo BS Hospitality Management 

 
 Gappe, Elma Esteban Master of Scienc ein Hotel and Restaurant Management 

 
 Ilano, Patrick Glenn Carungcong PhD in International Hospitality Management 

 
 Lucero, Pia Rhoda Pinpin PhD in International Hospitality Management 

 
 Manahan, Rex Cristobal Master in Management 

 
 Mendoza, Ruel Penales Master in Management 

 
 Modesto, Maizie Anne Salamatin Master of Management- Major in International Tourism and Hospitality Management 

 
 Mojica, Danina Anne Bernarte Master of Science in Tourism Management (Units) 

 
 Mojica, Jefferson Jeferson Master of Business Administration (Units) 

 
 Nueva, Rica May Costa Master of Science in Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Oximoso, Madette Saguibo Master of Arts in Educational Management (Units) 

 
 Pasion, Ron Cleoyd Ayos Master in International Hospitality Management (CAR) 

 
 Penus, Jaes Bryan Leyba Master in International Hospitality Management (CAR) 

 
 Peñaflorida, Sean Bradley Perido Master in Management 

 
 Peren, Katherine De Guzman Doctor in Business Management with specialization in Hospitality Management 

 
 Perez, Lyneth Bawag Master of Science in Hotel and Restaurant Management 

 
 Perido, Julie Anne de Torres Master in International Hospitality Management 

 
 Quirap, Thresecia Ricel Fidel MSITHM major in Travel and Tourism Operations 

 
 Reyes, Romeo III Layugan Master of Management Major in Organizational Behavior (Candidate) 

 
 Rocillo, Angela Nicole Velasco BSIHM with Specialization in Culinary arts and Kitchen Operations 

 
 Salon, Shiene Sojor BS HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT 

 
 Santos, Kaye Cuevo Masters Units 

 
 Sarmiento, Irene Roma Masters Graduate 

 
 Solanoy, Rona Niña Taciane P Masters of Arts in Education Major in Guidance and Counseling (CAR) 

 
 Soriano, Adelyn Babaan Masters in International Hospitality Management (Units) 

 
 Tayag, Joana Marie Matunog PhD in International Hospitality Management (Candidate) 

 
 Tibayan, Mary Grace Tibayan Master in Management 

 
 Viado, Nerinelle Mojica Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management 

 
 Vidallon, Reuben James Olores Bachelor of Science in Hotel and Restaurant Management 

 
 Viray, Reizel Guevarra PhD in International Hospitality Management (Candidate) 

 
 Laboratory Science High School 

 
 Abuan, Chatilene Javier BSE Mathematics 

 
 Agnes, Vince Adrian Loyola BSE Mathematics 

 
 Aliwalas, Rizzalyn Oller MAEd in English (Units) 

 
 Barrameda, Anna Katrina Bonzo Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Social Studies 

 
 Bermudo, Crystel Jade Teves BTLED 

 
 Caudilla, Marina Piores MAEd in English Language Teaching 

 
 Delos Angeles, Guiala Pescasio BSE Filipino 

 
 Matunog, Oliver Punzalan Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Biology 

 
 Mesa, Rufriel Sangangbayan Master of Arts in Education Major in Mathematics 

 
 Nuestro, Nicole Kate Cordova BSE Filipino 

 
 Perez, Tita Salamatin MAEd in English (Units) 

 
 Ramos, Princes Vidallon Master in Management major in Educational Management 

 
 Reyes, Angelica Rogacion MAEd in Biology (Units) 

 
 Rom, Hydy May Joyce MAEd - Guidance and Counselling 

 
 Vergara, Jethro Inocencio BS Exercise and Sport Science 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 17 October 2024.

----- DOC | Naic Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/naic-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-27 -----
Dr. Leah C. Navarro 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Naic Campus
 Designation of Naic Officials (January 2024 to December 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Office of the Campus Administrator

 

 
 Campus Secretary Ms. Zarita A. Manalo 

 
 Quality Assurance Officer Dr. Lomalinda J. Clores 

 
 Gender and Development Unit Head Mr. Ariel Rivera 

 
 Management Information Officer Mr. Marc Luigi G. Timola 

 
 Public Information Officer Mr. Henry R. Balanza 

 
 Sports and Socio-Cultural Coordinator Prof. Daniel G. Mojica 

 
 Records Officer Ms. Monica N. Mintu 

 
 Office of the Director for Curriculum and Instruction

 

 
 Director for Curriculum and Instruction Dr. Jesus Paolo B. Cullado 

 
 Fisheries and Aquatic Science Department Chairperson Ms. Ma. Elizabeth M. Esmeralda 

 
 Teacher Education Department Chairperson Dr. Ernesto A. Gutierrez, Jr. 

 
 Information Technology Department Chairperson Dr. Ricky Jay A. Riel 

 
 Management Department Chairperson Mr. Edriane Serrano 

 
 Arts and Sciences Department Chairperson Mr. Rodolfo V. Bagay Jr. 

 
 Laboratory Science High School Coordinator Mr. Marion Rodrigo D. Mariñas III 

 
 Campus Registrar Mr. Nasser Lee G. Apolona 

 
 Campus Librarian Ms. Rien Rose V. Salvador 

 
 Office of the Director for Administrative and Support Services

 

 
 Director for Administrative and Support Services Prof. Roberto J. Lacson 

 
 Accountant/Finance Head Unit Ms. Marian Grace T. Reyes 

 
 Supply Officer/Property Custodian Mr. Romel C. Hinahon 

 
 Physical Plant and Security Services Officer Mr. Sid Karlson S. Cortez 

 
 Human Resource Officer Ms. Evangelyn S. Lungay 

 
 Budget Officer Ms. Rica-Mae E. Espineli 

 
 Cashier/ Collection and Disbursement Officer Ms. Cindy Z. Sisracon 

 
 Health Services Unit Head Ms. Quennie M. Ragas 

 
 Office of the Director for Research, Development and Extension Services

 

 
 Director for Research, Development and Extension Services Prof. Armina B. Pugay 

 
 Extension Unit Head Ms. Emelita N. Sto. Tomas 

 
 Research Unit Head Mr. Samuel E. Samosa 

 
 Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Head Ms. Quennie M. Bilugan 

 
 Office of the Director for Student Affairs and Services

 

 
 Director for Student Affairs and Services Ms. Jie Anne M. Espinosa 

 
 NSTP Coordinator Mr. Renato S. Tanglao, Jr. 

 
 Student Welfare Services Unit Head Ms. Rona B. Quiton 

 
 Student Development Services Unit Head Mr. Leo Augustus B. Jacob 

 
 Institutional Student Programs and Services Unit Head Ms. Flordeluna B. Merlan 

 
 Guidance Coordinator/Admission Officer Dr. Resty Samosa 

 
 Office of the Director for External and Business Affairs 

 
 Director for External and Business Affairs Prof. Marilyn L. Tesorero 

 
 External and Business Affairs Unit Head Ms. Sandra M. Pascua 

 
 Alumni Affairs Unit Head Prof. Ma. Lourdes D. Guerrero 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 27 May 2024.

----- DOC | CCAT Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ccat-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-27 -----
Dr. Lauro B. Pascua 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU CCAT Campus
 Designation of CCAT Officials (January 2024 to December 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 INSTRUCTIONS 

 
 Director, Instruction Ariel G. Santos, Ed.D. 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Arts and Sciences Bernadette F. Lim 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Teacher Education Regie C. Delos Reyes 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Industrial Technology Ma. Daisy A. Santos, Ed.D. 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Management Studies Aiza M. Ducha 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Computer Studies Karlo Jose E. Nabablit 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Engineering Engr. John Robert. Briones 

 
 Principal, Laboratory Science High School Bridget I. Mirabel, PhD 

 
 Coordinator, Evening Classes Engr. Michael Ramos 

 
 Coordinator, TCP/Graduate Studies Mar-jay P. Dela Cruz 

 
 Coordinator, Student Teaching Ryan John A. Biares 

 
 Coordinator, On-the-Job Training/ Local and International Relations and Linkages Bhrendelyn B. Navales 

 
 Campus Registrar Marlyn A. Quinez 

 
 Campus Librarian Dan Marie F. Navarrete 

 
 ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCE MANAGEMENT SERVICES 

 
 Director, Administrative and Finance Management Services Elizabeth R. Dumlao, DBA 

 
 Head, Supply Office John Anthony B. Bedico 

 
 Canvasser Kyle O. Wafer 

 
 Head, Finance Management Services Renz Karl N. Mojica 

 
 Coordinator, Human Resources Angelica Marie G. Gatuz 

 
 Budget Officer Lizel J. Alvarez 

 
 Cashier Mary Rose G. Gozo 

 
 Health Services/Campus Nurse Marie Michelle G. Castro 

 
 Records Officer Donave C. Purcia 

 
 RESEARCH AND EXTENSION SERVICES 

 
 Director, Research and Extension Aries B. Gelera, MSICT 

 
 Coordinator, Research Services Kenneth J. Enrico 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Services Jenerry Y. Abad 

 
 Coordinator, Intellectual Property Karlo Jose E. Nabablit 

 
 Coordinator, Monitoring and Evaluation Joice Ann Gresos 

 
 PHYSICAL PLANT AND SECURITY SERVICESS 

 
 Officer-In-Charge, Physical Plant and Security Services Jurick P. Paulino 

 
 Coordinator, Campus Disaster Risk Reduction Management Ariesthotle D. Arive 

 
 Coordinator, Motor pool, Water and Power Ron Marvin G. Castro 

 
 Coordinator, Repair and Maintenance John Dell L. Rada 

 
 Coordinator, Civil Security Unit Jojo S. Belontidos 

 
 Coordinator, Ground Improvement and Landscape Racquel A. Catalan 

 
 OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 

 
 Director, Office of Student Affairs and Services Noelle T. Legaspi 

 
 Coordinator, Student Welfare Services Joanna K. Filosopo 

 
 Coordinator, Student Development Services Yvana R. Nocon 

 
 Coordinator, Research, Monitoring and Evaluation Michael Edward T. Armintia 

 
 Coordinator, Institutional Student Programs and Services Janessa Marielle S. Cruz 

 
 EXTERNAL AND BUSINESS AFFAIRS 

 
 Director, External and Business Affairs William P. Luseco, PhD 

 
 Coordinator, Resource Generation Ivan Joshua N. Toledo 

 
 Coordinator, Special Projects Jonard A. Almuestro 

 
 Coordinator, Alumni Affairs Mary Grace E. Gonzales 

 
 Coordinator, Project, and Marketing Analyst John Leovy P. Villa 

 
 Hostel Manager Elizabeth S. Ramos 

 
 QUALITY ASSURANCE, PLANNING, AND DEVELOPMENT 

 
 Director, Quality Assurance, Planning, and Development Christopher G. Estonilo, DT 

 
 Coordinator, Quality Assurance Allen Jhon C. Muyot 

 
 Coordinator, Planning and Development Marvin V. Onsana 

 
 Coordinator, Management Information Systems Raven M. Topacio 

 
 Coordinator, Certifications and Assessment Janice D. Marquez 

 
 OFFICE OF THE CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR 

 
 Campus Secretary Jenny Dane R. Basaysay 

 
 Public Affairs and Communications Officer Joanna K. Filosopo 

 
 Coordinator, Socio-Cultural and Sports Development Melita D. Hernandez 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development (GAD) Janet L. Rodriguez 

 
 Manager, Technovation Center Rodel D. Lubong, Lubong, EdD 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 30 January 2024.

----- DOC | Silang Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/silang-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-20 -----
Dr. Jocelyn L. Reyes 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Silang Campus
 Designation of Silang Campus Officials (September 25, 2023 to September 25, 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 2024 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Chair, Department of Management Haziel T. Alvarez 

 
 Chair, Department of Arts and Sciences Joseph S. Callanta 

 
 Chair, Department of Information Technology Beverly A. Malabag 

 
 Chair, Teacher Education Department Roselyn A. Ymana 

 
 Curricular Program Head, BS Computer Science Erwin L. Cahapin 

 
 Curricular Program Head, BS Business Management Aileen A. Cervantes 

 
 Curricular Program Head, Bachelor of Secondary Education Lemellu Nida L. Sarmiento 

 
 Curricular Program Head, Bachelor of Early Childhood Education Rosemarie N. Pragacha 

 
 Curricular Program Head, BS Tourism Management

Curricular Program Head, BS Hospitality Management Emy Grace B. Patambang 

 
 Curricular Program Head, BS Information Technology Cereneo S. Santiago Jr 

 
 Curricular Program Head, BS Psychology Joseph S. Callanta 

 
 Principal, Science Laboratory High School Lemellu Nida L. Sarmiento 

 
 Guidance Counselor Joseph S. Callanta 

 
 Campus Secretary Ma. Cristina D. Bayla 

 
 Campus Registrar Katriza Roanne Patenio 

 
 Finance Management Officer Elena B. Telmo 

 
 Human Resource Development Officer Merlina B. Castro 

 
 Management Information System Officer

LMS Coordinator

Web Master Hernel Bugabuga 

 
 Public Information Officer

Technical Assistant Charlo E. Gana 

 
 Records Officer

Bookkeeper, Resource Generation Unit Ma. Eliza A. Sano 

 
 Inspector

Property Custodian

Web Master Erwin L. Cahapin 

 
 Supply Officer

Assistant to the Resource Generation Officer Henry Panganiban 

 
 Resource Generation Officer Emy Grace B. Patambang 

 
 Liaison Officer Elena B. Telmo 

 
 Guidance Counselor Joseph S. Callanta 

 
 Canvasser Gabriel C. Bautista 

 
 Civil Security Officer

Assistant Librarian Christian B. Landicho 

 
 Coordinator, Student Affairs and Services Hazelyn H. Dela Cruz 

 
 Coordinator, Students' Records and Documents Aileen A. Cervantes 

 
 Coordinator, Quality Assurance and Accreditation Lemellu Nida L. Sarmiento 

 
 Coordinator, Library Services Prudencio Rosales 

 
 Coordinator, Health Services Zharmaine V. Garces 

 
 Coordinator, Research Services and Knowledge Management Cereneo S. Santiago Jr. 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Services Wendy C. Sadang 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Ma. Criselda M. Vertudez 

 
 Coordinator, Job Placement and Alumni Affairs Zarah Jane R. Centeno 

 
 Coordinator, Student Welfare and Development Rosemarie N. Pragacha 

 
 Coordinator, Student Misdemeanor and Discipline Unit Jane A. Manarpiis 

 
 Coordinator, National Service Training Program Emy Grace B. Patambang 

 
 Coordinator, Physical Plant Services

Science Laboratory Technician Marion P. Medina 

 
 Coordinator, Sports Development Robinson L. Buhat Jr. 

 
 Coordinator, Culture and Arts Maria Clarisse M. Penus 

 
 Coordinator, Student Admission Aemorelle O. Camarce 

 
 Coordinator/Chair, Instructional Materials Development Unit Aileen A. Cervantes 

 
 Member, Instructional Materials Development Unit Hermilina A. Mendoza 

 
 Member, Instructional Materials Development Unit Hazelyn H. Dela Cruz 

 
 Member, Instructional Materials Development Unit Rosemarie N. Pragacha 

 
 Member, Instructional Materials Development Unit Ma. Eliza A. Sano 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 13 March 2024.

----- DOC | Trece Martires City Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/trece-martires-city-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-20 -----
Dr. Jessie Anne T. Demetillo 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Trece Martires City Campus
 Designation of Trece Martires City Campus Officials (January 2024 to December 2024) 
 
   

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 OFFICE OF THE CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR 

 
 Campus Secretary 

Records Officer

Head, Entrepreneurial Center and Makerspace Pamela Daphne R. Busog 

 
 Campus Registrar Mary Ann L. Anonas 

 
 Registrar Assistant Rendale B. Valdez 

 
 Registrar Assistant Mr. Mark Anthony G. Pendon 

 
 Liaison Officer Ms. Dina M. Asas 

 
 Head, Management Information System

Head, Public Information Office

Head, Data Center

Campus Computer Programmer Julie Ann C. Bucog 

 
 Campus Computer Programmer Jericho Jover V. Magpantay 

 
 Budget Officer Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil 

 
 Collecting Officer/Cashier

Supply Officer Ms. Belleth E. Hosmillo 

 
 Property Custodian

Head, Utility Services

Supply Staff Ms. Jovelyn G. Importado 

 
 Linkage Officer

5S Focal Person Mr. Gerry P. Ibardaloza 

 
 Head, Campus Extension Services Mr. Joey P. Intac 

 
 Head, Campus Research Development Dr. Khenilyn P. Lewis 

 
 Head, Land Use Development and Infrastructure Program (LUDIP) Ms. Desiree Anne D. Mendoza 

 
 Head, Security Services

Head, Maintenance and Repair Unit

Risk Reduction and Pollution Control Officer

Transportation in-Charge Mr. John Nicolas M. Panizales 

 
 Head, Health Services Unit 

Head, Human Resource Development Office

ARTA Focal Person Ms. Gwena Rochiel G. Lontoc 

 
 Human Resource Development Assistant Ms. Dina M. Asas 

 
 Head, Gender and Development Ms. Lorelei V. Sobremonte 

 
 Alternate, Gender and Development Prof. Arlene L. Estrada 

 
 Resource Generation Officer

Campus Publication In-Charge Ms. Kristel Shane C. Paminter 

 
 Campus Canvasser

Campus Disbursing Officer

Campus Inspector

Resource Generation Assistant Ms. Khrizia Fei P. Panganiban 

 
 Campus Canvasser Assistant Mr. Marc Vherson Mojica 

 
 CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT AND INSTRUCTION OFFICE 

 
 Head, Curriculum Development and Instruction Office Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil 

 
 Head, Quality Assurance Unit

Accreditation Task Force Head Prof. Arlene L. Estrada 

 
 Quality Assurance Unit Assistant Mr. Lennard Joshua L. Estrada 

 
 Head, Instructional Materials and Development (IMDU) Unit Ms. Charise Mae D. Galve 

 
 Members, Instructional Materials and Development (IMDU) Unit Mr. Kelvin M. Custodio

Dr. Khenilyn P. Lewis 

Prof. Arlene L. Estrada 

Ms. Desiree Anne D. Mendoza

Prof. Cristza D.O. Manlapig 

Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil

Ms. Loran Camille V. Sara

Dr. Carmencita P. Tosco 

 
 Campus Librarian Ms. Loran Camille V. Sara 

 
 Library Assistant Mr. David John B. Sangel 

 
 Head, Library Advisory Committee Ms. Loran Camille V. Sara 

 
 Members, Library Advisory Committee Mr. Kelvin M. Custodio

Dr. Khenilyn P. Lewis 

Prof. Arlene L. Estrada 

Ms. Desiree Anne D. Mendoza

Prof. Cristza D.O. Manlapig 

Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil

Ms. Charise Mae D. Galve 

 
 DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT 

 
 Chairperson, Management Department

Head, BS Office Administration Program

Department Extension Services Coordinator

 Ms. Desiree Anne D. Mendoza 

 
 Head, BS Business Management Program

Department Research Development Coordinator

 Mr. Kelvin M. Custodio 

 
 Department Budget Officer

Department Linkage/OJT Coordinator Prof. Lilian O. Sidamon 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Rosemae A. Campanion 

 
 Department Public Information Officer/MISO

Department Gender and Development Coordinator Ms. Georgia Mae V. Puso 

 
 DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

 
 Chairperson, Information Technology Department

Head, BS Information Technology Program

Department Research Development Coordinator

Department OJT Coordinator

Department Budget Officer Dr. Khenilyn P. Lewis 

 
 Department Gender and Development Coordinator

Department Extension Services Coordinator

Department Linkage Coordinator

Department Alumni Coordinator Ms. Pamela Daphne R. Busog 

 
 Department Public Information Officer/MISO Mr. Richard A. Rocillo 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Marjorie M. Barabat 

 
 Department OJT Coordinator Julie Ann C. Bucog 

 
 In-charge, Computer Laboratory (Hardware & Software) Mr. Jeromie Jacintos 

 
 DEPARTMENT OF HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT 

 
 Chairperson, Hospitality Management Department

Head, BS Hospitality Management Program

Department Budget Officer Prof. Cristza D.O. Manlapig 

 
 Department Research Development Coordinator

Department Gender and Development Coordinator Ms. Kristel Shane C. Paminter 

 
 Department Extension Services Coordinator

Department OJT Coordinator Ms. Rose Ann T. Genova 

 
 Linkage and Property Custodian Mr. Gerry P. Ibardaloza 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Regine Mae M. Gimeno 

 
 Department Public Information Officer/MISO Ms. Ivy Joy R. Fonclara 

 
 In-Charge, Hospitality Management Laboratory Mr. Lennard Joshua L. Estrada 

 
 TEACHER EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 

 
 Chairperson, Teacher Education Department

Head, B Secondary Education Program

Department Research Development Coordinator Ms. Charise Mae D. Galve 

 
 Department Extension Services Coordinator

Department Linkage/OJT Coordinator Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Ma. Glyzza R. De Villa 

 
 Department Gender and Development Coordinator

Department Instructional Materials and Development Unit (IMDU) Coordinator Dr. Carmencita P. Tosco 

 
 DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND SCIENCES 

 
 Chairperson, Arts and Sciences Department

Department OJT Coordinator Prof. Arlene L. Estrada 

 
 Head, BS Psychology Program

Department Extension Services Coordinator Mr. Joey P. Intac 

 
 Department Research Development Coordinator Ms. Lorelei V. Sobremonte 

 
 Department Gender and Development Coordinator Ms. Darlene L. Estrada 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Allysa Repuya 

 
 Department Budget Officer Ms. Cyren Mae A. Flores 

 
 Department Public Information Officer Mr. Richmond M. Rojas 

 
 Department MISO Mr. Neil Jasper Caguitla 

 
 Department Linkage Coordinator Mr. Xenon Lee Laynes 

 
 In-Charge, Science Laboratory Ms. Selina M. Figalan 

 
 In-Charge, Sports and Recreation Equipment Mr. Marc Vherson C. Mojica 

 
 Subject Coordinator, FITT Mr. Mark Joseph Galang 

 
 Subject Coordinator, Social Science Ms. Marichel Villa 

 
 Subject Coordinator, Filipino Ms. Rizalyn Bautista 

 
 Subject Coordinator, Communication Ms. Jenica Lorraine Mojica 

 
 Subject Coordinator, Science Mr. Xenon Lee Laynes 

 
 OFFICE OF THE STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 

 
 Head, Office of Student Affairs and Services

Student Services Program Coordinator

Scholarship Coordinator Prof. Lilian O. Sidamon 

 
 Student Development Coordinator Ms. Rose Ann T. Genova 

 
 In-Charge, Student Publication Ms. Lorelei V. Sobremonte 

 
 On-the-Job (OJT) Coordinator Mr. Kelvin M. Custodio 

 
 Socio Cultural Coordinator

Sports Development Coordinator Mr. Marc Vherson Mojica 

 
 Guidance and Counseling Coordinator Ms. Charise Mae D. Galve 

 
 National Service Training Program (NSTP) Coordinator Prof. Vienna Mi A. Feranil 

 
 Alumni Coordinator

Admission Officer Ms. Mary Ann L. Anonas 

 
 Admission Assistant Mr. Mark Anthony G. Pendon 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 10 January 2024.

----- DOC | Graduate School and Open Learning College Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/gs-olc-officials/ | 2023-04-20 -----
Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan 

 Dean, Graduate School and Open Learning College 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 GSOLC Secretary

Learning Center Coordinator (WCM) Prof. Carmen A. Batiles 

 
 GSOLC Registrar

Property Custodian Ms. Rocellie R. Sanchez 

 
 Open Learning Center Coordinator Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida 

 
 Program and Research Coordinator (CEIT)

Learning Center Coordinator (WPU) Dr. Edwin R. Arboleda 

 
 Extension Coordinator (CEIT) Prof. Jose Carlo Dizon 

 
 Program Coordinator, MSFS (CAFENR) Dr. Eufemio G. Barcelon 

 
 Program Coordinator, MS AGRI/PHD AGRI (CAFENR) Dr. Cristina F. Olo 

 
 Program Coordinator, M AGRI (CAFENR)

Learning Center Coordinator, QNAS Dr. Venus O. Saz 

 
 Research Coordinator (CAFENR) Dr. Mariedel M. Autriz 

 
 Extension Coordinator (CAFENR)/ Learning Center Coordinator, OMSC Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel Jr. 

 
 Program Coordinator, PHD EDUC (CED) Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar 

 
 Program Coordinator MAED

Research Coordinator (CED) Dr. Liza C. Costa 

 
 Extension Coordinator (CED) Prof. Rosal Concepcion 

 
 Program Coordinator (CAS) Dr. Arleen C. Panaligan 

 
 Research/ Extension Coordinator (CAS) Dr. Fatima I. Cruzada 

 
 Program Coordinator MPS (CEMDS) Dr. Jo-Anne C. Nuestro 

 
 Research Coordinator MPS (CEMDS) Dr. Glenda S. Peña 

 
 Program Coordinator PhD MNGT, MM, MBA (CEMDS) Dr. Florindo S. llagan 

 
 Research Coordinator PhD MNGT, MM, MBA (CEMDS) Dr. Rowena R. Noceda 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, CvSU Cavite City Prof. Maria Cristina J. Baesa 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, CvSU Carmona Dr. Cristina M. Signo 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, CvSU Imus Dr. Alfe M. Solina 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, CvSU Silang Dr. Jocelyn L. Reyes 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, CvSU Naic Prof. John Xavier Nepomuceno 

 
 Learning Center Coordinator, MSC Dr. Elizabeth E. Polinga 

 
 Research Coordinator, WCM Dr. Roselyn A. Ymana 

 
 Assistant Registrar, GSOLC

In-charge. Reading Room

GAD Coordinator Ms. Joan Joy F. Liboon 

 
 Budget Officer

Canvasser

Office Clerk Mr. Marlon Jim A. Ramos 

 
 In-Charge, Management Information System and Public Information Officer

SIKAP Focal Person Mr. Rhyan Lawrence U. Matienzo 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 10 January 2024.

----- DOC | Bacoor Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/bacoor-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-20 -----
Prof. Menvyluz S. Macalalad 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Bacoor Campus
 Designation of Bacoor Campus Officials (February 5, 2024 to October 6, 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Head, Administration and Support Services

Coordinator, Property Management Unit Zannie I. Gamuyao 

 
 Campus Secretary

Head, Campus Research Services

Coordinator, Practice Teaching Ronan M. Cajigal 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Computer Studies

Head, Instructional Materials Development Unit Donnalyn B. Montallana 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Management Studies

Head, Campus Extension Services Janice A. Nealega 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Criminology

Head, Curriculum and Instruction Jimmy M. Caltino 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Arts and Sciences

Coordinator, Psychology Program Kathy C. Jamero 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Teacher Education

Coordinator, Public Affairs and Communications Unit

Research Coordinator, Department of Teacher Education Jolina Razell M. Mindoro 

 
 Coordinator, Computer Science Program

Head, Gender and Development Unit Ely Rose Panganiban-Briones 

 
 Coordinator, Information Technology Program

Coordinator, Learning Management System (LMS)

Coordinator, Planning Unit Jovelyn D. Ocampo 

 
 Coordinator, Business Administration Program

Coordinator, Campus Linkages Unit Maria Lourdez D. Lamanilao 

 
 Coordinator, Hospitality Management Program Bryan E. Orias 

 
 Coordinator, General Education

Coordinator, Knowledge Management Unit Anarose M. Rupido 

 
 Coordinator, Physical Education Regine U. Caltino 

 
 Coordinator, Secondary Education Program (English)

Coordinator, Culture and the Arts Development Unit

Alternate Coordinator, Gender and Development Unit Richard Adrian Kenn D. Pargan 

 
 Coordinator, Secondary Education Program (Mathematics)

Extension Coordinator, Department of Teacher Education Analissa S. Torres 

 
 Head, Office of Student Affairs and Services

Coordinator, Institutional Development Office

Coordinator, National Service Training Program Steffanie M. Bato 

 
 Coordinator, Student Misdemeanor

Extension Coordinator, Deparment of Criminology

Coordinator, Pollution Control Unit Arman C. Maribojo 

 
 Coordinator, Scholarship Unit

Focal Person, TES-TDP

Records Officer Haydih Anne T. Velasco 

 
 Coordinator, Institutional Student Programs and Sevices

Coordinator, Guidance, Admission, and Testing Services Rimat Maris I. Taclibon 

 
 Coordinator, Sports Development Unit Cherisma D. Mendoza 

 
 Coordinator, Campus OJT / Job Placement Unit Diana Mae M. Belarmino 

 
 Coordinator, Student Welfare Services Unit Marielle Joy O. Mengullo 

 
 Coordinator, Student Development Services Unit Maria Lyn E. Dela Cruz 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Computes Studies

(Information Technology and Comuter Science Programs) Alvina E. Ramallosa 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Computes Studies

(Information Technology and Comuter Science Programs) Alvin D. Catalo 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Management Studies

(Business Administration and Hospitality Management Programs) Fe S. Dullavin 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Hospitality Management Program Lordeliza V. Soriano 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Management Studies Lloyd John P. Cordero 

 
 Head, Civil Security Services Unit

Research Coordinator, Department of Criminology James E. Dalis 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Arts and Sciences Abigail E. Malan 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Arts and Sciences Kenneth Charles D. Bermejo 

 
 Coordinator, Management Information System (MIS) Edmund C. Martinez 

 
 Campus Registrar Jimwell G. Dacanay 

 
 Campus Librarian Lorema N. Acapulco 

 
 Budget Officer

In-charge, Procurement Office Ryan Angelo G. Mojica 

 
 Campus Canvasser Jayson L. Gorospe 

 
 In-charge, Cashier Sherryl Anne R. Saliba 

 
 Campus Liaison Officer

Driver Dante R. Español 

 
 Head, Business and Resource Generation Office

Coordinator, Physical Plant Services Emmanuel N. Lecaros 

 
 Coordinator, Human Resource and Development Office Ma. Christie B. Taco 

 
 Campus Nurse Aivan Rhei O. Cacho 

 
 Head, Supply Office

Campus Inspector

Safety Officer Gilbert E. Magano 

 
 Coordinator, Alumni Affairs John Carlo J. Benjamin 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 27 May 2024.

----- DOC | Imus Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/imus-campus-officials/ | 2023-04-19 -----
Dr. Jenny Beb F. Espineli 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Imus Campus
 Designation of Imus Campus Officials (February 13, 2024 to October 31, 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Campus Secretary Dr. Cynthia Facundo 

 
 Campus Registrar Zara Jane Camarce 

 
 Campus Human Resource and Development Coordinator

Head/Finance Unit/Admin Officer Analin Vasquez 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Management Dr. Alfe Solina 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Social Science and Humanities Milangelie Torreno 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Physical Education

NSTP Coordinator Sixto Ras Jr. 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Computer Science Grace Ibanez 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Languages and Mass Communication Leslie Anne Gatdula 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Teachers Education Carlota Baguion 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Hospitality Management Florabhel Tinte 

 
 Chairperson - Department of Biological and Physical Science Milagros Viado 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Business Management Bernard Pangilinan 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Office Administration Mark Raffy Bacay 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Psychology Kyle Russelle Paredes 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Entrepreneurship Baby Kharen Cristal 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Computer Science Rosalinda Lacuesta 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Information Technology Wyeth Datul 

 
 Program Coordinator - BA in Journalism Rolando Y. Santiago Jr. 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Teachers Education Vivian Panigbatan 

 
 Program Coordinator - BS in Hospitality Management Maryleth Ramos 

 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services Coordinator Delilah Antolin 

 
 Campus Linkages Officer Cromwell Cabalu 

 
 Campus Extension Coordinator Carlo Malabanan 

 
 Campus Research Coordinator Dr. Liane Vina Ocampo 

 
 Gender and Development Coordinator Elvira Pakingan 

 
 GAD Alternate Margarette Soberano 

 
 Alumni Affairs Coordinator Jenny Danica Abayari 

 
 Knowledge Management Coordinator/IMDU Maylene Grace Lucas 

 
 Institutional Development Office Coordinator Luningning Valdez 

 
 Placement Coordinator Mildred Apostol 

 
 Budget Officer Dr. Wylyn Salva 

 
 Culture and Arts Coordinator Armand Aton 

 
 Scholarship Coordinator Karen Tilan 

 
 Public Information Officer Abigail Gomez 

 
 Sports Coordinator Jose Lerio Batula 

 
 Guidance Coordinator Jervin Quicho 

 
 Resource Generation Officer Ricky Tepora 

 
 Campus Inspector / Campus Student Discipline Officer John Joseph Villa 

 
 Safety Officer Rhoel Joseph Sarino 

 
 Civil Security Officer/ Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Coordinator Jerick Gonzales 

 
 Admission Officer Jonalyn De Grano 

 
 Physical Plant Services Coordinator / Campus Canvasser Roberto Crucillo 

 
 Liaison Officer Rona Vales 

 
 MIS Officer / Web Master Philip Andrew Ersando 

 
 Records Officer Kyle Kristian Chua 

 
 Campus Nurse Jasper Legaspi 

 
 Property and Supply Officer Nelia Ocampo 

 
 Assistant Property and Supply Officer Celine Jane Magsumbol 

 
 Campus Librarian Marvie Joy Sostino 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 5 March 2024.

----- DOC | Tanza Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/tanza-campus-officials/ | 2023-03-13 -----
Dr. Tita C. Lopez 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU Tanza Campus 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Designations Name 

 
 Campus Secretary Prof. Charmaine T. Banag 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Arts and Sciences Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian 

 
 Teacher Education Department 

 
 Chairperson, Teacher Education Department Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Ma. Woodelyn P. Reyes 

 
 Department Research Head Ms. Jhollie Ann Lopez 

 
 Department Extension Head Mr. Efren Peñaflorida Jr. 

 
 Department Field Study Head Ms. Estelita A. Villa 

 
 Professional Review Coordinator (BSE/BEE) Ms. Sheena M. Banate 

 
 Professional Review Coordinator (BSP) Ms. Micah Sanchez 

 
 Department GAD Coordinator Mr. Erwin Regio 

 
 Department of Information and Technology 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Information and Technology Prof. Joyce Erika S. Senaris 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Angel A. Duales 

 
 Department Research Head Mr. Muhaimin Macapundag 

 
 Department Extension Head Prof. Charmaine T. Banag 

 
 Department OJT Coordinator Mr. Audrey Gerard Advincula 

 
 Department GAD Coordinator Mr. Ryan Culvera 

 
 Department of Management 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Management Prof. Ritch M. Banate 

 
 Department Secretary Ms. Kristina D. Son 

 
 Department Research Head Prof. Melona I. Saquin 

 
 Department Department Extension Head Prof. Debbie Rose B. Fabian 

 
 Department MIS Officer Mr. Jan Edizon De Silva 

 
 Department GAD Coordinator Ms. Jessica Avon Quezada 

 
 --- 

 
 Research Services Head Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian 

 
 Extension Services Head/Business Affairs and Resource Generation Head Ms. Estelita A. Villa 

 
 Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator Prof. Joyce Erika S. Senaris 

 
 Human Resource Development Coordinator Ms. Eizel Mae L. Angeles 

 
 Gender and Development Coordinator Mr. Roman P. Jacinto III 

 
 Campus Publication In-charge Ms. Rein Ortigosa 

 
 Campus Registrar/Liaison Officer Ms. Noemi A. Perida 

 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services Head Prof. Melona I. Saquin 

 
 Institutional Students Program Services/ Admission and Testing/Scholarship Coordinator Ms. Fatima S. Diaz 

 
 Student Development Services Facilitator/ Socio-Cultural Development Coordinator Ms. Gerry Mae T. Silvero 

 
 OJT/ Job Placement Coordinator Prof. Melona I. Saquin 

 
 Student Welfare Services Facilitator Ms. Eizel Mae L. Angeles 

 
 Sports Development Coordinator Mr. Joseph O. Sabaybay 

 
 Alumni Affairs Coordinator Ms. Sharmaine M. Banate 

 
 Research, Monitoring, and Evaluation of Students Programs Services Facilitator Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian 

 
 NSTP Coordinator Ms. Mary Joy Angelique Mojica 

 
 MIS/Records Officer Mr. Jeffrey Delgado 

 
 Public Affairs and Communications Officer Mr. Audrey Gerard Advincula 

 
 Finance Management Office Head Prof. Debbie Rose B. Fabian 

 
 Property Custodian/Physical Plant and Security Ms. Mary Rose Elamparo 

 
 Canvasser Mr. Joseph O. Sabaybay 

 
 Pollution Control/ DRRM Coordinator Ms. Eizel Mae L. Angeles 

 
 Liaison Officer Mr. Frederick Ebilane 

 
 Instructional Materials Development Unit Prof. Ritch M. Banate 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 8 March 2023.

----- DOC | General Trias Campus Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/general-trias-campus/general-trias-campus-officials/ | 2023-02-02 -----
PROF. MARILOU P. LUSECO 

 Campus Administrator, CvSU General Trias Campus 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 2023 

 
 
 
 Curriculum and Instruction 

 
 Coordinator, Curriculum and Instruction

Chairpesron, Department of Teacher Education

Coordinator, Instructional Materials Development Victoriano P. Barliso Jr. 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Arts and Sciences

Campus Secretary

Coordinator, NSTP Shaine C. Hayag 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Management Studies April G. Gile 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Tourism and Hospitality Management Studies Aljevin A. Comiso 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Information Technology

Coordinator, Extension Services Michael E. Pareja 

 
 Campus Librarian Pauline Anne P. Estrada 

 
 Coordinator, Quality Assurance Officer, Planning and Development Dr. Louziela P. Masana 

 
 Coordinator, Campus On-the-Job Training

Student Welfare Services Officer

Coordinator, Career and Job Placement Cleafere N. Nocon 

 
 Administrative and Finance Services 

 
 Coordinator, Administrative, Finance and Support Services Shaine C. Hayag 

 
 Liaison officer

Canvasser Edwin Caadan 

 
 Supply and Property Custodian Roland C. Helmo 

 
 Budget Officer April G. Gile 

 
 Records Officer Jennifer A. Asiman 

 
 Cashier

Collecting Officer

Campus Registrar Rogelyn P. Alarca 

 
 Officer, Management Information System

Officer, Public Information Office Ariel T. Atienza 

 
 Coordinator, Human Resource Development Office Kaycelyn Marjorie O. Gambon 

 
 Campus Nurse Jing Jing R. Suing 

 
 Coordinator, Resource and Income Generation Christian Panganibab 

 
 Coordinator, Linkages and Consortia April G. Gile 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Lana Angela T. Yambao 

 
 Coordinator, Campus Publication Rhayan R. De Castro 

 
 Research and Extension 

 
 Coordinator, Research Dr. Noel B. Manarpiis 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Services Michael E. Pareja 

 
 Physical Plant and Security Services 

 
 Coordinator, Physical Plant and Security Services Rommel H. Sarreal 

 
 Coordinator, Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Albino F. Panotes 

 
 Pollution Control Officer Glenn Calvin D. Doce 

 
 Office of Student Affairs Services 

 
 Coordinator, Office of the Student Affairs Services

Sports Development and Socio-Cultural Affairs Officer

Adviser, Student Publication Jonel N. Camalig 

 
 Guidance Coordinator Laarni Maye Perez 

 
 Coordinator, Student Development Services

Coordinator, Student Government/Organization Co Rommel S. Deseo 

 
 Coordinator, Student Welfare Services

Coordinator, Career and Job Placement Cleafere N. Nocon 

 
 Admission, Evaluation and Testing Officer Jing Jing R. Suing 

 
 Coordinator, Institutional Students Programs and Services

Coordinator, Scholarship and Financial Assistance

Coordinator, Alumni Affairs Roland C. Helmo 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 2 February 2023.

----- DOC | College of Arts and Sciences Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-arts-and-sciences-officials/ | 2023-01-26 -----
Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer 

 Dean, College of Arts and Sciences
 Designation of CAS Officials (2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 2024 

 
 
 
 Chairperson, Department of Biological Sciences Dr. Lloyd O. Balinado 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Communication Ms. Lisette D. Mendoza 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Humanities Ms. Emeliza T. Cruz 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Physical Sciences Dr. Rene B. Betonio 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Social Sciences Mr. Renato T. Agdalpen 

 
 College Secretary

Data Privacy Officer Ms. Jamaica Q. Espineli 

 
 Registrar

ARTA Point Person Ms. Analyn T. Dico 

 
 Research Coordinator Ms. Alcona Mae P. Baltazar 

 
 Extension Coordinator Mr. Andrew J. Siducon 

 
 Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator Dr. Lynn G. Penales 

 
 Gender and Development Coordinator Ms. Chona D. Ramos 

 
 Gender and Development Alternate Ms. Marichu T. Benavides 

 
 Guidance Counselor Dr. Paulito V. Hilario 

 
 Instructional Materials Development Committee Chair Ms. Kimmi Dane N. Jimenez 

 
 Instructional Materials Development Committee Members Ms. Marilou S. Matilla

Dr. Liwayway P. Taglinao

Ms. Lani S. Rodis

Mr. Gil D. Ramos

 

 
 Job Placement and Alumni Coordinators Ms. Henelyn L. Lapizar

Ms. Jinky T. Rupido

Ms. Jocelyn A. Legaspi

 

 
 Management Information System Officer Mr. Renz Kevin M. Alcazar 

 
 Cultural and the Arts Coordinator/Records Custodian Ms. Jonah Micah A. Lagua 

 
 Public Information Officer Ms. Alcona Mae P. Baltazar 

 
 Pollution Control Officer Ms. Florence dR. Jimenez 

 
 College Sports Coordinator Mr. Robert M. Nova

Mr. Paul Vincent E. Botin

 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BS Applied Mathematics Ms. Jennifer R. Mojica 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BS Biology Ms. Sherine M. Cruzate 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BA Communication Mr. Allan Robert C. Solis 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BA English Language Studies Ms. Catherine R. Mojica 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BS Development Communication Ms. Kimmi Dane N. Jimenez 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BA Journalism Mr. Renz Kevin M. Alcazar 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BA Political Science Mr. Renato T. Agdalpen 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BS Psychology Dr. Armi Grace B. Desingaño 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, BS Social Work Ms. Merlie C. Nahilat 

 
 Curriculum Program Head, MS Biology Ms. Arleen C. Panaligan 

 
 Properly Custodians Ms. Jennifer S. Hernandez

Ms. Ma. Corazon V. Herrera

 

 
 International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Coordinator Ms. Rosa R. hernandez 

 
 Civil Security Officers Mr. Joether A. Francisco

Dr. Manny A. Romeroso

 

 
 Safety Officers Mr. Paul Vincent E. Botin

Mr. Robert M. Nova

 

 
 Budget Officer Ms. Kathrine P. Viado 

 
 Canvasser Ms. Krisha Camille A. Balagosa 

 
 In-charge Reading Room Ms. Sarah Jane N. Gayas 

 
 Inspector Mr. Edison C. Mojica 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 02 September 2025.

----- DOC | College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-sports-physical-education-and-recreation-officials/ | 2023-01-26 -----
Prof. Ronnel P. Cuachin 

 Dean, College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation
 Designation of CSPEAR Officials (Academic Year 2023-2024) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 2024 

 
 
 
 Department Chairperson of Physical Education, Exercise and Sports Science

Program Coordinator BPED

IMDU

College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Clark L. Costa 

 
 Department Chairperson of Physical Education

Program Coordinator BSESS

Guidance Facilitator

IMDU

5S Member

College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Erlinda C. Eustaquio 

 
 Research Coordinator

Sports Coordinator

IMDU Prof. Joel D. Anajao 

 
 College Registrar Prof. Mary Ann R. Cardines 

 
 College Socio-Cultural Coordinator

OJT BSESS SM Coordinator Prof. Zion M. Cleto 

 
 Property Custodian Officer

5S Officer

Pollution Control Officer

Canvasser Mr. Amiel M. Cortez 

 
 Extension Coordinator

GAD Coordinator Prof. Jazmin P. Cubillo 

 
 College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Ana Liza R. Mojica 

 
 College Secretary

Quality Assurance Coordinator

OJT BPED Coordinator Prof. Guylaine T. Nueva 

 
 In-Charge, Reading Room

Job Placement Coordinator Prof. Clarisse Ann C. Papa 

 
 Budget Officer

Civil Security Officer

College Misdemeanor Member

Canvasser Prof. Angelito F. Penales 

 
 GAD Alternate

OJT BSESS SC Coordinator

Canvasser Mr. Ray-Ann H. Penus 

 
 PIO

Alumni Affairs Prof. Jeffrey P. Romera 

 
 Management Information System Officer

College Inspector

Canvasser

College HR Coordinator Mr. Leanie M. Icamina 

 
 Facilities Equipment Reservation Officer

Liason Officer

Property Custodian Member

Pollution Control Member Mr. Janvier A. Crucido 

 
 Property Custodian Member

Civil Security Member Mr. Abelardo C. Crystal 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 24 January 2024.

----- DOC | College of Criminal Justice Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-criminal-justice-officials/ | 2023-01-26 -----
Dr. Marissa L. Ikan 

 Dean, College of Criminal Justice
 Designation of CCJ Officials (January 7, 2025 to December 31, 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Quality Assurance Coordinator

Adviser for 3rd Year BSCrim Students Marissa L. Ikan 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Criminology

Instructional Material Development Coordinator

OJT Coordinator

Review Coordinator

Adviser for 4th Year BSCrim Students V-jay S. Eusebio 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Industrial Security Management

College Secretary

Program Monitoring and Evaluation Officer

Resource Generation Officer

International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Coordinator

Adviser for 2nd Year BSISM Students Silkie C. Tuguinay 

 
 In-charge of Reading Room

Pollution Control Officer

Adviser for 3rd Year BSISM Students Darius R. Campos 

 
 Research and Extension Coordinator Alexis Alcantara 

 
 College Student Misdemeanor Officer

Guidance Coordinator

Adviser for 2nd Year BSCrim Students Fevelyn F. Ongyod 

 
 Sports and Culture Coordinator

Adviser for 4th Year BSISM Students Justine D. Tristeza 

 
 Budget Officer

College Canvasser

Property Custodian

Adviser for 4th Year Irregular BSCrim Students Marco Victor P. Mendoza 

 
 College Records Officer

ARTA Coordinator

Co-Adviser for 4th Year Irregular BSISM Students Lerisa B. Baes 

 
 College Registrar Shiena Lejano 

 
 DRR Coordinator

Public Information Officer

MIS Officer

Data Privacy Officer

Accreditation Task Force Officer

Alternate Monitoring and Evaluation Officer Jessa Mae M. Llasus 

 
 Supply Officer

HRDO Coordinator

Liason Officer Michelle D. Escalante 

 
 Civil Security

Alternate Property Custodian

Alternate Pollution Control Officer Jeffrey C. Manansala 

 
 Alumni and OSAS Coordinator

Job Placement Coordinator Ms. Rivan L. Banosong 

 
 Co-Adviser for CJSC May Martinez 

 
 Adviser for CJSC

Adviser for 1st Year BSCrim Students Ethel Joy P. Regondula 

 
 Co-Adviser for 1st Year BSCrim Students Anna Francheska D. Basco 

 
 Adviser for 1st Year BSISM Students Boots M. Ombao 

 
 Co-Adviser for CJSC Jana Angela P. Petil 

 
 GAD Coordinator Marc Darrel Alcazar 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 27 May 2025.

----- DOC | Sustainability | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-sustainability/ | 2023-01-09 -----
Cavite State University is in partnership with Future Earth Philippines and the Philippine Futures Thinking Society to take action for sustainable development goals and practices through inclusive and equitable quality education, anticipatory leadership and management, multi-stakeholder collaboration, and research and extension. 

 

 

 Different Sustainable Development Goals

----- DOC | Researchers and Extensionists Profile | https://cvsu.edu.ph/researchers-and-extensionists-profile/ | 2023-01-09 -----
Researchers and Extensionists Profile

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Health

Email: ederlyn.destura@cvsu.edu.ph

 Ederlyn P. Destura

 College Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community Fitness, Health and Wellness

Email: guylaine.nueva@cvsu.edu.ph

 Guylaine T. Nueva

 College Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: janealega@cvsu.edu.ph

 Janice A. Nealega

 Campus Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Management

Email: nora.capistrano@gmail.com

 Nora D. Capistrano

 Campus Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, ICT, Web/App Development

 

Email: lrmanuel@cvsu.edu.ph

 Laarni R. Manuel

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Veterinary Medicine, Community

Email: emman7081@cvsu.edu.ph

 Emmanuel D. Mago

 College Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: gretchen.macaranas@cvsu.edu.ph

 Gretchen Macaranas

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, ICT

 

Email: markanthony.abril@cvsu.edu.ph

 Mark Anthony R. Abril

 Campus Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: michael.consignado@cvsu.edu.ph

 Michael G. Consignado

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, ICT

Email: regene.hernandez@cvsu.edu.ph

 Regene G. Hernandez

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, ICT, Environment

 

Email: janine.bacosmo@cvsu.edu.ph

 Janine B. Bacosmo

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: joan.fortuna@cvsu.edu.ph

 Joan L. Fortuna

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: mariaandrea.francia@cvsu.edu.ph

 Maria Andrea C. Francia

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Education

 

Email: jocelyn.siochi@cvsu.edu.ph

 Jocelyn B. Siochi

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Education, Urban-Agriculture

Email: leamarissa.domingo@cvsu.edu.ph

 Lea Marissa S. Domingo

 Campus Extension Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Education

Email: eppakingan@cvsu.edu.ph

 Elvira P. Pakingan

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Aquaculture, Fisheries

Email: aphroentoma@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Aphrodite S. Entoma

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Aquaculture, Fisheries, ICT

Email: mcbenigno@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Mariel C. Benigno

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Aquaculture, Fisheries, ICT

Email: paolo.cullado@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Jesus Paolo B. Cullado

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Environment

Email: stotomasemelita64@gmail.com

 Emelita N. Sto. Tomas

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship, Fisheries

Email: harliqueen.jacinto@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Harliqueen S. Jacinto

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship, Fisheries

Email: manueldeguzman@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Manuel A. De Guzman

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship, Fisheries

Email: qmbilugan@cvsu-naic.edu.ph

 Quennie M. Bilugan

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, ICT, Entrepreneurship

Email: penaroslyn@cvsu.edu.ph

 Roslyn P. Peña 

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Engineering, Infrastructure

Email: renatobcubilla@gmail.com

 Renato B. Cubilla

 Implementer

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: ICT, Community

Email: cbcarandang@cvsu.edu.ph

 Charlotte B. Carandang

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: lynethperez@cvsu.edu.ph

 Lyneth B. Perez

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Community, Entrepreneurship

Email: lynethperez@cvsu.edu.ph

 Emeriza C. Luna

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Communication, Education, Community

Email: anabellagomez@cvsu.edu.ph

 Anabella C. Gomez

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Education, Community, Wellness

Email:

 Jenny Danica P. Abayari

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Education, Community, Communication

Email: elarcie.balsomo@cvsu.edu.ph

 Elarcie Balsomo

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Education, Community, ICT

Email: cmbago@cvsu.edu.ph

 Cene M. Bago

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Extension Area of Interest: Education, Community, ICT

Email: bcsarmieto@cvsu.edu.ph

 Bienvenido C. Sarmiento

 Extension Coordinator

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Community, Coffee Research and Development

Email: geboycastillo@cvsu.edu.ph

 Gerry M. Castillo

 Director of NCRDEC

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Community, Farming Systems, Agriculture

Email:

 Rodrigo H. Diloy

 NCRDEC Education Specialist II

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Community, ICT, GIS, Coffee Research

Email: ajl.magcamit@gmail.com

 Antonette Jean L. Magcamit

 Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Community, ICT, GIS, Coffee Research, Product Development

Email: aleugenetorres@cvsu.edu.ph

 Al Eugene L. Torres

 Science Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technologies, Agri-Aqua

Email: allenllaguno@cvsu.edu.ph

 Allen Joshua Llaguno

 Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: ICT, GIS, Coffee Research, Farming Systems

Email: villanuevamaowel@gmail.com

 Maowel A. Villanueva

 Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: ICT, GIS, Coffee Research, Farming Systems

Email: villanuevamaowel@gmail.com

 Rodney B. Javier

 Computer Programmer II

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technology, Coffee Research

Email: rickarlflores@cvsu.edu.ph

 Ric Karl T. Flores

 Science Research Specialist

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technology, Coffee Research

Email: jfporras@cvsu.edu.ph

 John Floyd B. Porras

 Science Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Technology Development

Email: dilbertpagkaliwangan@cvsu.edu.ph

 Dilbert E. Pagkalingawan

 Science Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Communication, Knowledge Management

Email: jonnalou.delrosario@cvsu.edu.ph

 Jonnalou V. Del Rosario

 Project Assistant II

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Coffee, Community

Email: nathbenipayo@gmail.com

 Nathalie Angel D. Benipayo

 Project Development Officer 

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Coffee, Community

Email: rjpomperada@cvsu.edu.ph

 Raubel Jophet Pomperada

 Project Development Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technologies, Agri-Aqua, Food Resiliency

Email: gizelle.crema@cvsu.edu.ph

 Gizelle D. Crema

 Project Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Farming Systems, Coffee, Community

Email: marjorieann.panerio@cvsu.edu.ph

 Marjorie Ann C. Panerio

 Project Development Officer

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Farming Systems, Coffee, Community

Email: romnick.samodio.rs@cvsu.edu.ph

 Romnick V. Samodio

 Project Development Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technologies, System Development

Email: johnmarkrogador@cvsu.edu.ph

 John Mark Rogador

 Project Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Smart Technologies, System Development

Email: cgalcachupas@cvsu.edu.ph

 Charmaine G. Alcachupas

 Science Research Specialist

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Coffee Genetics

Email: jermaine.fabella15@gmail.com

 Jermaine Marie Ann O. Fabella

 Science Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Coffee Genetics

Email: kimsingcogarcia@gmail.com

 Kimberly S. Garcia

 Laboratory Technician I

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Coffee Genetics

Email: chingkerbelle03@gmail.com

 Maria Lourdita P. Boñgol

 Science Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Land and Water Resources, GIS and Remote Sensing

Email: josecarlo.dizon@cvsu.edu.ph

 Jose Carlo R. Dizon

 SPRINT Faculty Researcher

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Microelectronics, Electrochemistry, Energy Storage, Supercapacitors, Numerical Modeling, Multiphysics Modeling, Artificial Intelligence

Email: sdfenol@cvsu.edu.ph

 Sheryl D. Fenol

 SPRINT Faculty Researcher

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Soil and Water Management

Email:

 Al Owen Roy A. Ferrera

 SPRINT Faculty Researcher

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Social Forestry, Environmental Science, GIS and Remote Sensing

Email: jpmagpantay@cvsu.edu.ph

 Junser P. Magpantay

 SPRINT Faculty Researcher

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Postharvest Technology and Processing

Email: richellemae.olpot@cvsu.edu.ph

 Richelle Mae D. Mendoza-Olpot

 SPRINT Faculty Researcher

 

 

 

 

 Area of Interest: Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Industrial-Organizational Psychology

Email:

 Louziela P. Masana

 Faculty Researcher

----- DOC | Waste Management Activities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/green-operations/waste-management-activities/ | 2022-12-14 -----
The students from the College of Nursing (CON) and College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) support and practice “Garbage-In, Gabage-Out” and “Total Plastic Ban” policies of our University.

  

 

  

 

 CvSU Central Student Government (CSG) monitors and collects garbage inside the University as one of their activities towards CvSU Environmental Management Policies.

 

  

 

 The University contracted with the third party DENR accredited transporter for the hauling of residual and recyclable wastes from the Material Recovery Facility (MRF).

 

  

 

 The University installed and maintained signages in promoting and disseminating Environmental Management Policies to its students, faculty, employees and clients.

 

 The University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) conducted a Re-orientation Seminar on CvSU Environmental Policies on September 21, 2022 at Hostel Tropicana, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite. The re-orientation seminar aimed to create a comprehensive understanding of the University's environmental policies in terms of management and awareness.

 About twenty-eight (28) personnel from the Administration Building attended the seminar.

 

 The University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) conducted a Training Workshop on Waste Management: Re-orientation Program on CvSU Environmental Policies for Pollution Control Coordinators last September 6, 2022 at the S.M. Rolle Hall, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite.

 This activity aimed to: a) re-orient the Pollution Control Coordinators of each colleges/offices/units of the university on their duties and responsibilities in terms of environmental policies; b) create a better understanding on the importance of environmental management; and c) review and update the CvSU environmental policies in line with the DENR-EMB existing policies.

 The training workshop was attended by forty nine (49) Pollution Control Coordinators of Cavite State University – Don Severino delas Alas Campus, Indang, Cavite.

 

 Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, Pollution Control Officer serves as Resource Speaker in the seminar titled “Capability Seminar on Solid Waste Management” on May 04, 2022. This seminar was facilitated by the Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) to raise the awareness of the personnel on the University's environmental policies.

 

 To promote environmental management policies of Cavite State University, Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, University Pollution Control Officer served as resource person during the Webinar on CvSU Environmental Policies and Small-space Gardening on April 28 and 29, 2022 via Cisco Webex video conferencing. This was attended with various students taking NSTP 2 – CWTS subject in CvSU – Don Severino de las Alas Campus, Indang, Cavite.

 

 Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, CvSU Pollution Control Officer, was invited by the Bids and Awards Committee on Security Services to be a Resource Speaker on the topic “Safety and Environmental Awareness” at Rolle Hall last April 30, 2022.

 Mr. Magpantay discussed about CvSU Environmental Policies to all security personnel to be deployed at the University.

----- DOC | Tree Planting Activities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/tree-planting-activities/ | 2022-12-14 -----
The University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) together with the Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade (SPRNT) Center and CvSU Future Earth Philippines Committee conducted the Cavite State University (CvSU) Annual Tree Planting Activity within the vicinity of the University on July 18, 2022. A total of 100 seedlings were planted which comprise of 50 Dao (Dracontomelon dao) seedlings and 50 Kaong (Arenga pinnata) seedlings. The activity was headed by Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, University Pollution Control Officer and it was participated by University Administrative Council (Small).

 CvSU Annual Tree Planting Activity was made successfully through the support of SPRINT Center and Physical Plant Services (PPS) for site preparation and assistance during the planting activity, University Civil Security Services (UCSS) and University Health Services Unit (UHSU) for ensuring the safety of the participants and Public Affairs and Communication Office (PACO) for photo documentation.

  

 

  

  

 A total of 100 seedlings of Nangka (Artocarpus heterophyllus) were planted at the Newly Acquired Land, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite. The activity was spearheaded by the University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) in collaboration with the Office of the UniversityPresident.

This was participated by the Administrative Council (Small) in compliance to the Cavite State University (CvSU) Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) conditions and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) issued by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources – Environmental Management Bureau (DENR-EMB).

  

 

  

 The SPRINT Center, CvSU Administrative Council, SPRINT Center's Research and Extension Team conduct a Ceremonial Kaong Planting Activity for the establishment of the SPRINT Center Sugar Palm Technology, Research, Innovation, and Production (STRIP) Area at Newly Acquired Land, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite as part of the birthday celebration of its University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, and in celebration of 2022 National Science and Technology Week (NSTW).

 A total of 100 kaong seedlings were planted in the SPRINT Center STRIP Area, which will serve as an experimentation area for kaong-related research and studies, a demonstration farm, and a production area. In addition, this will also help to increase the population of kaong.

 The said activity is a joint effort of the SPRINT Center, University Pollution Control Office, Physical Plant and Services, Public Affairs and Communication Office, Civil Security Services, and University Health Services.

----- DOC | Green Operations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/green-operations/ | 2022-12-14 -----
Tree Planting Activities

 
 
 

 

 

 The University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) together with the Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade (SPRNT) Center and CvSU Future Earth Philippines Committee conducted the Cavite State University (CvSU) Annual…

 
 

 View More 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Waste Management Activities

 
 
 

 

 

 The students from the College of Nursing (CON) and College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) support and practice “Garbage-In, Gabage-Out” and “Total Plastic Ban” policies of our University.  …

 
 

 View More

----- DOC | CVMBS Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cvmbs-officials/ | 2022-11-02 -----
Dr. Rezin C. Bahia 

 Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences
 Designation of CVMBS Officials (September 18, 2023 to October 6, 2024) 
 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Chair, Department of Immunopathology and Microbiology

Civil Security Officer

College QAAC Coordinator

FA Representative

Sports Coordinator

DVM Program Coordinator Dr. Nelson J. Montialto 

 
 Chair, Clinical and Population Health

Knowledge Management Unit Coordinator

College MIS Officer

OJT Coordinator Dr. Alvin-William A. Alvarez 

 
 Chair, Department of Basic Veterinary Sciences

College Extension Coordinator

College Budget Officer and Inspector

College Review Center Coordinator Dr. Emmanuel D. Mago 

 
 College Registrar

College Guidance Counselor

ARTA Focal Person

5S Focal Person Dr. Ciolo L. Villanueva 

 
 Administrator, Veterinary Medical Center

College Property Custodian Dr. Larra Faye R. Alvina 

 
 GAD Coordinator

Reading Room In-Charge Dr. Jacquielyn A. Baydo 

 
 College Secretary

College Research and Development Coordinator Dr. Eloiza May S. Galon 

 
 College Job Placement Coordinator

Culture and the Arts Coordinator Dr. Cristina Marie T. Agasang 

 
 College Canvasser

College Records Officer Ms. Rhomil Anne A. Martin 

 
 Alternate GAD Coordinator

Pollution Control Coordinator

College Canvasser Ms. Nikki S. Simo 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 24 January 2024.

----- DOC | International House | https://cvsu.edu.ph/international-house/ | 2022-10-20 -----
IMG_20221011_092655

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 1

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_092634 (1)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 1

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_090845

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 2

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091201

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 2

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091019

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 2

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_090952

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House 2

----- DOC | Hostel Tropicana Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-facilities/hostel-tropicana-facilities/ | 2022-10-20 -----
For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:

 Landline: (046)443-2837

 Mobile Phone: +639659437460

 This page was last edited on 19 June 2023.

----- DOC | University Dormitory | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-dormitory/ | 2022-10-17 -----
The University Dormitories are composed of 3 buildings: two (2) for the lady's dormitory and one (1) for men's dormitory. The lady's dormitories are composed of 2 four-storey building located inside the campus. The men's dormitory is a simple bungalow type building also located inside the campus near the lady's dormitory. The dormitory staff are on duty on a 24-hours basis to assist the occupants and monitor their whereabouts. Security is provided by the University Civil Security Unit.

  The Student Housing Dormitory, one of the University Ladies Dormitory has 93 rooms. Each room has two (2) double decks beds, one (1) table with two (2) chairs. The comfort rooms and bathrooms are common with lavatory in every end point of every floor. There are two (2) water tanks for water availability. Water dispenser is also available at the ground floor or first floor. Availability of fire extinguisher are located ends of every floor. Emergency lights are fixed already. Also, there is an allotted receiving area, space or area for consultation and meditation for spiritual concern. Bulletin board is visible to everyone for information dissemination and notification.

 The International House II, another University Ladies Dormitory has 13 rooms in every floor. Each room are good for 2-6 person. The room is fully air conditioned with 1-3 double decks, 2 cabinets divided into 4parts, comfort room and terrace. There is also an electrical room, fire extinguisher and emergency light in every floor for safety measure. Availability of two water tanks is located on both top ends of the dormitory. At the ground area, located the 2 exit area, storage room and function room.

 The Men's Dormitory has 12 rooms for occupants' accommodation and 1 room served as the stock room. Each room has 4 double decks good for 8 occupants, kitchen area, comfort room and shower room.

 REQUIREMENTS 

 New Applicants / Occupants 

 
 Photocopy of Certificate of Good Moral Character

 1×1 ID Picture (2pcs.)

 Parent Consent

 Photocopy of Registration Form (to follow)

 
 Old Applicants / Occupants 

 
 Dorm Clearance (Previous Semester)

 Photocopy of Registration Form (to follow)

 
  

 DORMITORY RATE 

   

 STUDENT HOUSING UNIT 

 5 person / room      —————    P   3,300.00 / person / sem 

 4 person / room      —————    P   3,600.00 / person / sem 

 3 person / room      —————    P   4,800.00 / person / sem 

 2 person / room      —————    P   7,200.00 / person / sem 

 1 person / room      —————    P 14,400.00 / person / sem 

   

 MENS DORMITORY 

 8 person / room      —————    P  2,500.00 / person / sem 

 NOTE: 

 Student/Occupant shall pay 50% down payment and another 50% upon admission. Reservation fee is not refundable, while the remaining balance  is refundable within the first week of the official opening class.

             

 OTHER FEES 

 Electric Fan (Desk Fan)      (     )                P 500.00 /800.00 / sem

 Radio / Cassette                   (     )                P    325.00 / sem

 Computer / Laptap               (     )                P    500.00 / sem

 Television                              (     )                P    400.00 / sem

 Cellular Phone                     (     )                P    150.00 / sem

 Refrigerator                           (     )                P 1,500.00 / sem

 Flat Iron                                 (     )                P    825.00 / sem

 Foam                                      (     )                P    500.00 / sem

 Note: Rate or fees may vary from time to time

   

             TRANSIENT 

 Rate                ——————–         P 100.00 / night

  

 INTERNATIONAL HOUSE II 

 6 persons / room    ——————– P 5,000.00 / person / sem 

 5 persons / room    ——————– P 6,000.00 / person / sem 

 4 persons / room    ——————– P 7,500.00 / person / sem 

 3 persons / room    ——————– P 10,000.00 / person / sem 

 2 persons / room    ——————– P 15,000.00 / person / sem 

 NOTE: 

 Student/Occupant shall pay 50% upon reservation and another 50% upon admission. Reservation fee is not refundable, while the remaining 50% is refundable within the first week of the official opening class.

   *****      Rooms at International House II has individual sub-meter. The students / occupants are responsible to pay their electric bill monthly depending on the usage of each room.

   

 TRANSIENT 

 Rate                ——————–         P 150.00 / night

   

 HOUSE RULES ON THE CONDUCT, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF RESIDENTS/OCCUPANTS 

 (PINK DORM and MEN'S DORM) 

 
 Only bonafide students and currently enrolled in CvSU are allowed to be residents of dormitory.

 Hal amount of the required fee must be paid at the start of the semester and full payment must be made weeks before the semester ends.

 First-come-first served basis shall be applied every semester. Assignment of rooms shall be the prerogative of the houseparent.

 All personal belongings should be taken out every end of the semester except for those who are enrolled during summer. Certificate of registration is required as proof.

 Dormitory residents are expected to respect the peace and privacy of co-residents within the room. Any untoward incident should be reported immediately to the houseparent on duty.

 Cleanliness and orderliness of the dormitory must be observed at all times.

 Any activity of dormitory organization or group must seek approval from the dormitory management before it is conducted.

 No visitors are allowed at the receiving hall except the parents, guardians or relatives of the residents.

 Wearing short, sleeveless, sandos, flimsy underwear and revealing attire is prohibited when:

 
 
 there are visitors in the dorm whether their own or of others

 going out of the dorm wherever the destination is

 
 
 Proper use of bathroom / toilets and laundry area must be strictly observed.

 Keeping pets are strictly prohibited.

 Anyone who uses electrical appliances at the dormitories should pay for their consumption following the approved rates per unit and must be for personal use only. For safety reason, rice cooker and water heater are not allowed.

 Smoking and drinking liquors are not allowed inside or outside the dormitories or University campus.

 Possession and use of firearms, other deadly weapons, gambling devices, illegal drugs and pornographic materials are prohibited.

 Residents must submit their approved class schedule and sign the dormitory logbook whenever going in and out of the dormitory.

 When going out the University Campus later than 9:00PM, residents must accomplish a permit to stay out late indicating his or her destination and expected time to return. Issuance of permits depends on their purpose and can be availed from houseparent's desk only up to 7:30PM.

 In case, illness or accident must be immediately reported to the houseparents on duty.

 Curfew hours is 9:00 pm, residents are expected to be inside the dormitory during this time for the checking of attendance.

 Residents will be properly charged with corresponding penalties for vandalism or damages that may occur in the dormitories if proven of such offense..

 Rooms will be subjected to regular inspection provided that residents are present during the inspection.

 Residents are expected to stay in their respective rooms. Neighboring to other rooms is discouraged.

 Residents are responsible for the safekeeping of their belongings.

 Residents are encouraged to participate in approved activity of students organizations or students association establish or formed in the dormitory

 
  

 DORMITORY RATE 

   

 INTERNATIONAL HOUSE II 

 6 persons / room    ——————– P 5,000.00 / person / sem 

 5 persons / room    ——————– P 6,000.00 / person / sem 

 4 persons / room    ——————– P 7,500.00 / person / sem 

 3 persons / room    ——————– P 10,000.00 / person / sem 

 2 persons / room    ——————– P 15,000.00 / person / sem 

 NOTE: 

 Student/Occupant shall pay 50% upon reservation and another 50% upon admission. Reservation fee is not refundable, while the remaining 50% is refundable within the first week of the official opening class.

 *****      Rooms at International House II has individual sub-meter. The students / occupants are responsible to pay their electric bill monthly depending on the usage of each room.

   TRANSIENT 

 Rate                ——————–         P 150.00 / night

  

 HOUSE RULES ON THE CONDUCT, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF RESIDENTS/OCCUPANTS 

 (INTERNATIONAL HOUSE II ) 

 
 Students / occupants shall pay 50% upon reservation and another 50% upon admission. Reservation fee is not refundable, while remaining 50% is REFUNDABLE within the 1 st week of the opening of class.

 Room at INTERNATIONAL HOUSE II has individual sub meter. The students / occupants are responsible to pay their bills monthly depending on the usage of each room.

 All Personal belongings should be removed at the end of the semester as they go on with their summer or semestral break. There should be zero – student occupancy during the summer vacation except to those students who are taking summer classes. This policy “first come first serve” shall be observes every semester.

 Dorm residents must respect the peace and privacy of co-residents and observe proper decorum inside the dormitory at all times. Camaraderie and friendship is expected for all occupants.

 Cleanliness and orderliness of the dormitory must be observed AT ALL TIMES ! To make it possible, residents must coordinate with the house parents on whatever activity is set by their group, organization or association.

 Study and visiting hours (9:00AM – 9:00PM) are strictly observed. No visitors are allowed at the receiving area except the parents, guardian or nearest relatives of the residents.

 Wearing short, sleeveless, sandos, flimsy underwear and revealing attire is prohibited:

 
 
 When there are visitors in the dorm whether their own or of others

 When going out of the dorm wherever the destination is

 
 
 Proper use of bathroom / toilets and laundry area must be strictly observed.

 Keeping pets are strictly prohibited.

 SMOKING IS NOT ALLOWED inside or outside the dorm or university campus.

 Possession and use of firearms, other deadly weapons, gambling devices, illegal drugs and pornographic materials are prohibited.

 Residents must submit their class schedule and sign the dorm logbook whenever going in and out of the dormitory.

 When going out the University Campus later than 9:00PM, residents must accomplish a PERMIT TO STAY OUT LATE indicating the destination and expected time to return. Issuance of permits depends on their purpose and can be availed from houseparent's desk only up to 7:30PM.

 In case ,of illness or accident must be immediately reported to the houseparent's on duty.

 CURFEW HOURS IS 9:00 PM . Residents are expected to be inside the dormitory during this time for the checking of attendance.

 Residents will be held liable to whatever vandalism or damage that may occur in the dormitory facilities if proven of such wrong doing and will be subjected to reasonable punishments.

 Rooms will be subjected to regular inspection for security purposes provided that residents are present during the inspection.

 Residents are only allowed to stay in their respective rooms.

 Residents are held liable to whatever loss in their belonging.

 Residents must participate in approved activity of students organizations or students association establish or formed in the dormitory

 
  

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 IMG_20221011_091201

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091019

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_090952

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International House II

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image11

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image12

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image14

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091732

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091717

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091717

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091942

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pink Dorm

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091901

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image16

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091602

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091557

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221011_091433

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image15

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Men's Dormitory

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 Personnel Profile- Duties and Responsibilities 

  

 

 Name: PERLITA A. CRISOSTOMO 

 Designation: In-charge in Monitoring of Housing and Residential Services

 Educational Attainment: Bachelor of Science in Agriculture with MS Agriculture candidate

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors of Housing and Residential Services

 Supervises the maintenance and cleanliness of dormitory of the university

 Maintains discipline among residents and enforces dormitory rules and regulations

 Look after the health and the needs of dormitory residents

 Performs other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned by the higher authorities.

 
  

 Name: MARTE M. BABAAN 

 Designation: Administrative Aide IV

 Educational Attainment: Management (undergraduate)

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors the occupants

 Conducts inventory of International House II properties

 Maintains the cleanliness of International House II and its surrounding

 Assists the occupants, parents and other visitors

 Performs other duties given by higher authorities

 
  

 Name: GERALD R. RODRIN 

 Designation: Administrative Aide I

 Educational Attainment: Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management     (undergraduate)

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors the occupants

 Conducts inventory of International House II properties

 Maintains the cleanliness of International House II and its surrounding

 Assists the occupants, parents and other visitors

 Performs other duties given by higher authorities

 
  

 Name: NORMITA L. RINT 

 Designation: Administrative Aide II

 Educational Attainment: Computer Secretarial – 2 years (graduate)

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors the occupants

 Conducts inventory of International House II properties

 Maintains the cleanliness of International House II and its surrounding

 Assists the occupants, parents and other visitors

 Performs other duties given by higher authorities

 
  

 Name: ROGER A. ASOR 

 Designation: Administrative Aide I

 Educational Attainment: High School Graduate

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors the occupants

 Conducts inventory of International House II properties

 Maintains the cleanliness of International House II and its surrounding

 Assists the occupants, parents and other visitors

 Performs other duties given by higher authorities

 
  

 Name: GEMINIANO M. GARCIA 

 Designation: Farm Worker I

 Educational Attainment: High School Graduate

 Duties and Responsibilities: 

 
 Monitors the occupants

 Conducts inventory of International House II properties

 Maintains the cleanliness of International House II and its surrounding

 Assists the occupants, parents and other visitors

 Performs other duties given by higher authorities

 
 Student Housing Unit Organizational Chart

----- DOC | Office of Student Affairs and Services | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-student-affairs-and-services/ | 2022-10-17 -----
As an institution of higher learning, the Cavite State University caters to the needs of students, not only in the acquisition of education but also in their personality development. To ensure that the students' potentials for advancement are maximized, the Student Welfare Services was established. The Student Welfare Services had been renamed Office of Student Affairs (OSA). It is a major project under the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

 The Office of Student Affairs started as one of the functional units of the then Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC) in 1980. Through the years, the name of the Office was changed to Student Services Project in 1986, Student Services in 1989, Student Welfare Services in 1991 and renamed again to Office of Student Affairs in 1998 when DSAC was elevated into a university, the Cavite State University. Since then, the Office has been providing different student services to its clients such as guidance and counseling, admission and testing, and student development services like student organization and socio-cultural affairs, student publication and placement of students and graduates. The mandated National Service Training Program (NSTP) subject was also offered by the Office in 2002. The Office will continue and shall remain committed to provide student welfare and development activities to the CvSU academic community and the public.

 OSA GOALS

 The goals of the Office of Student Affairs are the following:

 
 to look after the educational, vocational, as well as the personal development need of the students;

 to assist the students to maximize their potentials by helping them understand themselves and their environment and to enhance their psychological growth towards socialized maturity.

 
 OSA OBJECTIVES

 The objectives of the Office of Student Affairs are the following:

 
 Provide counseling and testing to students so that they may recognize and accept themselves and develop their potentials/capabilities;

 provide information, training, placement and follow-up services to students, graduates and other clienteles;

 provide financial assistance to the needy and deserving students;

 provide avenues to hone students' talents and interest to ensure social and cultural growth; and

 develop skills and potentials of student writers

 

 
 
 Career Service

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pre- Employment Seminar 2019 
 

 

 

 

 The 2019 Pre- Employment Seminar was conducted by OSAS together with the College Placement Coordinators last October 16, 2019 at the CvSU International Convention Center. The main objective of the…

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Job Fair 2019 
 

 

 

 

 The Office of Student Affairs and Services has successfully conducted the Job Fair 2019 at the University Gymnasium last April 25, 2019, 8am to 5pm. It was participated by sixty…

 
 Read More

----- DOC | Coffee Processing Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-facilities/ovpeba-coffee-processing-center/ | 2022-10-13 -----
The Coffee Processing Center is jointly managed by CvSU and Agricultural Competitiveness Enhancement Fund (ACEF). It produces good quality ground coffee loved by many who tasted its unique aroma. However. Competition may soon edge us out if no improvement is made in terms of quality and cost efficicency. 

 FOOD PROCESSING 

 Since most of the farm products are perishable in nature, it is necessary that processing be integrated into production. Fruits, meat products, milk that are not sold because of oversupply should be processed and, in that way, can be stored for longer period. Also additional value can be accounted to the product this way. The Food processing Center should be able to produce high quality product that are acceptable to the market. This means that the product should pass standard of DTI, BFAD jointly managed by CvSU and Agricultural Competitiveness Enhancement Fund (ACEF) is included in this unit.

----- DOC | Rolle Hall | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-facilities/ovpeba-rolle-hall/ | 2022-10-13 -----
It is a big hall named after Santiago M. Rolle, the University's First President. It can accommodate 250 people. It is suitable for wedding receptions, birthdays, seminar and workshops, political events etc. 

 The following are the general provisions for the use of the Rolle Hall: 

 
 Application for reservation shall be filed with the OBA at least 10 working days prior to the scheduled event. The following shall be furnished a copy each upon approval of the application: OBA, Social Hall In-charge, Civil Security and Requisitioned/ user 

 
 -Fifty percent (50%) down payment shall be required from the requisiteness/users and the other 50% to be paid not later than a day before gathering. 

 -Down payment made for withdrawn reservation shall be forfeited in favor of the University. 

 -In cases where the user shall avail the services of a private caterer such caterer shall negotiate with OBA for the business permit with a fee for the occasion and/or the user himself shall shoulder the said fee. The caterer shall as well observe items c, d & e below. 

 
 Except for the facilities available in the hall, other needs in the gathering shall be borne by the user 

 It is strictly prohibited to: 

 
 -Use and/or possess illegal drugs, prohibited drinks as wine, alcohol, etc, firearms and other deadly weapons while inside the hall and its surroundings 

 
 proper usage of facilities and premises as well as the practices of proper sanitation and hygiene procedures shall always be observed. 

 The University has the right to demand replacement or payment on any destruction made by the user based on the assessment of the committee created for the purpose 

 Discounts – Discounts may be availed by the following: 

 
 – Faculty member/employees- 20% 

 -CvSU school organizations -30% 

 -Churches-50%

----- DOC | Swimming Pool | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-facilities/ovpeba-swimming-pool/ | 2022-10-13 -----
It is composed of one (1) Olympic size swimming pool and two (2) children pool. The pool is supplied with spring water that continuously flows. Exclusive use of the pool may be availed through arrangement.

----- DOC | Water Refilling Station | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-water-refilling-station/ | 2022-10-13 -----
The Water Refilling Station serves the university populations need for safe and clean drinking water. The Water Refilling unit delivers filtered water to different colleges and offices. Concessionaires likewise patronize this services.

----- DOC | International Convention Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-international-convention-center/ | 2022-10-13 -----
default

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5066

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 default

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5073

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5072

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5069

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5075

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 530A5077

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Convention Center

----- DOC | Office of the Vice President for External and Business Affairs Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpeba-facilities/ | 2022-10-13 -----
International Convention Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Water Refilling Station

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Rolle Hall

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Coffee Processing Center

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Book Store

----- DOC | Gender and Development Resource Center Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/gender-and-development-resource-center-facilities/ | 2022-10-13 -----
GADRC, support center for minority groups including LGBTQ+ community

  

 FACILITIES 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Gender and Development Resource Center Office

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Receiving Area

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 GAD Corner

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 GAD Library

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 GAD Library

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Lactation / Breastfeeding Station

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Lactation / Breastfeeding Station

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Babaylan Training Room

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Babaylan Training Room

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Personnel's Workstation

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image11

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Personnel's Workstation

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image12

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Office of the Director

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. Susan G. Tan delivered the opening remarks.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. Almira G. Magcawas supervised the Focus Group Discussion.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Florian de Borja PWD representative

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Mr. Angelito Salubong LGBTQIA++ Representative

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Concepcion B. Agarin, Senior Citizen Representative

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Marie Shiela A. Haloc delivered the closing remarks.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 The participants of the Focus Group Discussion.

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  

 TRAINING OF TRAINERS

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 The registration of the participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC, delivering the opening message

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC, delivering the opening message

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation served as moderator for this activity

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Eloisa B. Rozul, Head, Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office, delivered the closing message

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Eloisa B. Rozul, Head, Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office, delivered the closing message

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Eena Geslaine A. Barrun 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Jelyne F. Gealone

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Nathalie Malabato-Saguido

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image11

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Marjorie R. Romero

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image12

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Lieke Goojier

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Groupings: Team Makisig

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image14

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Groupings: Team Matatag

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image15

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Groupings: Team Gorgeous

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image16

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Eena Geslaine A. Barrun discussing the BDRRM Strengthening CBDRRM

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image17

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Jelyne F. Gealone discussing the Local and Philppine Disaster Situation

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image18

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Nathalie Malabato-Saguido discussing how to perform the cardiopulmonary resuscitation properly

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image19

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Lieke Goojier discussing the basic water safety and rescue

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image20

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta discussing the Mainstreaming Gender in DRRM

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image21

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image22

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image23

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image24

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image25

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image26

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image27

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image28

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 1: Local Disaster Timeline

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 2: Geological Hazard

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image30

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 2: Geological Hazard

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image31

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 2: Geological Hazard

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image32

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 2: Geological Hazard

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image33

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 2: Geological Hazard

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image34

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image35

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image36

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image37

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image38

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image39

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 3: Hazard and Resource Map Making

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image41

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image42

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image43

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image44

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image45

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image46

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image47

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 4: Aling Nena Store

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image48

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 5: BDRRMC Structure

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image49

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Activity 5: BDRRMC Structure

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image77

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pledge of Commitment

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image85

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image84

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image83

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image82

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image81

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image80

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image79

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image78

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participant's Evaluation/Reaction

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image91

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image90

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image89

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image88

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image87

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image86

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Participants

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image92

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 A group photo with the partnered agencies of GADRC: Center for Disaster Preparedness, Province of Cavite, Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office, Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Office, and Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office

----- DOC | Health Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/health-facilities/ | 2022-10-06 -----
The Cavite State University Health Services is in charge with the delivery of basic health services that are promotive, preventive and curative. It aims to provide quality, affordable and accessible health services to its target clientele. 

 The CVSU Health Services is situated along Bancod road, in front of Laboratory Science High School, Indang, Cavite. 

 

 MISSION: 

 To provide the highest attained patient care by making “the right to health” a reality through: 

 
 delivering quality, affordable and accessible health services 

 arousing community health awareness 

 promoting better health services in the work place 

 mobilizing health resources 

 
   VISION: 

 Health is a basic human right. A continuous set of quality services must be provided to assure the reality of this right, not only to the academic community of the University but also to the resident of Indang and nearby municipalities. 

  

 TARGET CLIENTELE / AREA COVERAGE: 

 The hospital intends to provide health service not only to the academic community of the University but also to the residents of Indang and nearby communities. 

  

 ORGANIZATIONAL SET UP: 

 Cavite State University Health Services is under the Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services.  

 The health services shall be headed by the OIC, Jose Alberto E. Morena. Under him are the head of Medical Department, Dental Department, Nursing Services Department, Administrative and Ancillary Department. 

 

  

 SERVICES OFFERED: 

 

 General Medicine 

 
 Consultation and Treatment 

 Minor Surgery 

 First Aid Treatment 

 Pre-enrollment Medical Examination 

 Pre-employment Medical Examination 

 Annual Physical Examination 

 
 Dental Medicine 

 
 Consultation 

 Oral Prophylaxis (Cleaning) 

 Simple Tooth Extractions 

 Restorative Treatment (Tooth Filling) 

 
 Ancillary Services 

 
 Radiologic/X-ray Services 

 Laboratory Examinations 

 Electrocardiogram (ECG) 

 Ambulance S(For EMERGENCY cases only) 

 
  

 For inquiries, you may reach us at: 

 Email: infirmary@cvsu.edu.ph 

 Landline: (046) 423 1335 

 Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/cvsuhsu 

 MEDICAL FACILITIES 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Treatment Area

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Records Section

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Records Section

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Reception Area

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Comfort Room

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Comfort Room

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 DENTAL FACILITIES 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image9

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dental Facilities

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dental Facilities

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image11

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dental Facilities

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 MEDICAL EQUIPMENT

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Centrifuge

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Centrifuge

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Blood Chemistry Analyzer

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Blood Chemistry Analyzer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image12

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ECG Machine

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Oxygen Tank

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image14

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Weighing Scale

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image15

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Nebulizer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image16

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Nebulizer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image17

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Sphygmomanometer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image18

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Sphygmomanometer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image19

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Ambu Bag

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image20

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Diagnostic Set

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image21

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Diagnostic Set

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image22

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Stethoscope

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image23

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Stethoscope

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image24

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Thermometer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image25

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Treatment Cart

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image26

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Intravenous Fluids

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 MEDICAL AND WATER SUPPLY

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image27

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Medicines And Other Medical Supplies And Materials

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image28

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Medicines And Other Medical Supplies And Materials

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Filtration System Attached To The Water Source

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image30

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Filtration System Attached To The Water Source

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 DENTAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLY

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image31

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dental Chair

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image32

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 UV Sterilizer

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image35

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Filling Instruments, Cotton Fliers, Mouth Mirrors, Explorers, Etc.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image34

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Filling Instruments, Cotton Fliers, Mouth Mirrors, Explorers, Etc.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image33

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Filling Instruments, Cotton Fliers, Mouth Mirrors, Explorers, Etc.

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image36

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dental Supplies

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 STORAGE FACILITIES

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 image37

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Records And Files

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image38

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Records And Files

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image39

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Records And Files

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image42

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Medicine and Other Supplies

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image41

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Medicine and Other Supplies

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 image40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Medicine and Other Supplies

----- DOC | Sports Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/sports-facilities/ | 2022-10-06 -----
The presence of various fitness and sports facilities in CvSU showcase the objective of the institution in attaining and promoting holistic development among its members and stakeholders. This ensure that wide range variety of physical activity is available. These facilities are being used by students in their Physical Education classes, student – athletes' trainings, conduct of local to national sports competition, and other extra-curricular activities. Employees of the university also utilized the sport and fitness facilities as part of the health and wellness program of the institution. Sports facilities can also be utilized by the community and other stakeholders of the University. 

  

 INDOOR SPORTS FACILITY 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 5 October 12, 2017

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Quadrangle

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 20210303_102411 (1)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Quadrangle

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 20210310_094726

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 University Gymnasium

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 
 https://cvsu.edu.ph/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/Gym-Video.mp4 

 

 

 OUTDOOR SPORTS FACILITY 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 University Oval

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 University Oval

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Long Jump

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Long Jump

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Tennis Court

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Tennis Court

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Baseball Field

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Baseball Field

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Swimming Pool

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 WATER SPORTS FACILITY

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 IMG_20221006_170423 (1)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170502

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170518

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170541

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170610

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170622

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170735

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170634

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 IMG_20221006_170714 (1)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Saluysoy

----- DOC | University Facilities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-facilities/ | 2022-10-06 -----
Technology in the Classroom
 

 
 
 

 

 

 Computer Equipped Teaching Spaces     Printing Services   Teaching Spaces with Modern with Modern Audiovisual Equipment   Coworking and Meeting Spaces with Internet Access         Laboratory…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Sports Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

 The presence of various fitness and sports facilities in CvSU showcase the objective of the institution in attaining and promoting holistic development among its members and stakeholders. This ensure that…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Health Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

 The Cavite State University Health Services is in charge with the delivery of basic health services that are promotive, preventive and curative. It aims to provide quality, affordable and accessible…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Gender and Development Resource Center Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

 GADRC, support center for minority groups including LGBTQ+ community   FACILITIES   FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION   TRAINING OF TRAINERS

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 International Convention Center
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Water Refilling Station
 

 
 
 

 

 

 The Water Refilling Station serves the university populations need for safe and clean drinking water. The Water Refilling unit delivers filtered water to different colleges and offices. Concessionaires likewise patronize…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Swimming Pool
 

 
 
 

 

 

 It is composed of one (1) Olympic size swimming pool and two (2) children pool. The pool is supplied with spring water that continuously flows. Exclusive use of the pool…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Rolle Hall
 

 
 
 

 

 

 It is a big hall named after Santiago M. Rolle, the University's First President. It can accommodate 250 people. It is suitable for wedding receptions, birthdays, seminar and workshops, political…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Coffee Processing Center
 

 
 
 

 

 

 The Coffee Processing Center is jointly managed by CvSU and Agricultural Competitiveness Enhancement Fund (ACEF). It produces good quality ground coffee loved by many who tasted its unique aroma. However.…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Book Store
 

 
 
 

 

 

          

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 University Dormitory
 

 
 
 

 

 

 The University Dormitories are composed of 3 buildings: two (2) for the lady's dormitory and one (1) for men's dormitory. The lady's dormitories are composed of 2 four-storey building located…

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Hostel Tropicana Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

           For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following: Landline: (046)443-2837 Mobile Phone: +639659437460 This page was last edited on 19 June 2023.

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 International House
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 University Chapel
 

 
 
 

 

 

    

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Food Service Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 View More 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 University Housing Facilities
 

 
 
 

 

 

 STATEMENT OF POLICY This policy shall govern the existing and newly-constructed housing facilities in the CvSU Employees' Village at the Don Severino delas Alas Campus of Cavite State University, Indang,…

 

 
 
 View More

----- DOC | CED Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ced-officials/ | 2022-10-06 -----
Dr.Liza C. Costa 

 Dean, College of Education
 Designation of CED Officials (January 2026 to December 31, 2026)   

 
 
 
 Designation Name 

 
 
 
 College Secretary Dr. Richel P. Diokno 

 
 College Registrar Mr. Alvin V. Obniala 

 
 Chairperson, Teacher Education Department (TED)

Alternate Coordinator, Gender and Development Program Asst. Prof. Evelyn F. Grueso 

 
 OIC–Principal, CvSU Science High School Asso. Prof. Alfredo A. Venzon 

 
 Administrator, CvSU Child Development Center

Coordinator, Quality Assurance and Accreditation Assoc. Prof. Julie S. Guevara 

 
 Coordinator, Linkages

Data Privacy Officer Mr. John Erickson R. Bulan 

 
 Coordinator, Research and Extension Services Dr. Janelle P. Mendoza 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Program

Coordinator, Sports and Socio-Cultural Development Ms. Hydy May J. Rom 

 
 Alumni Coordinator

Job Placement Officer Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo 

 
 Budget Officer Ms. Giecel F. Nuestro 

 
 College Canvasser Ms. Jocelyn M. Ilagan 

 
 College Inspector and Property Custodian Dr. Jane J. Reyes 

 
 In-Charge, Learning Resource Center Ms. Maria Jovylyn M. Tan 

 
 College Guidance Coordinator

Field Study Coordinator Assoc. Prof. Jason R. Maniacop 

 
 College Management Information System Officer Mr. Harold S. Cerdon 

 
 College Public Information Officer Mr. Aldrin Terrence A. Goco 

 
 College Safety Officer Mr. Kevin P. Guinsisana 

 
 Instructional Materials Development Coordinator Ms. Prosela Marie V. Labriaga 

 
 Pollution Control Officer Ms. Belinda R. Crystal 

 
 Civil Security Officer Mr. Alvin C. Ayos 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 20 January 2026.

----- DOC | University MIS | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovppd/university-mis/ | 2022-10-05 -----
Office 365 Migration

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Office 365 Registration 
 

 

 

 

 Guide for creating Office 365 account using your official CvSU Account

 
 Read More 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copying Contents from Google Drive to OneDrive 
 

 

 

 

 Guide for copying files from Google Drive to OneDrive using Mover

 
 Read More

----- DOC | Board of Regents | https://cvsu.edu.ph/board-of-regents/ | 2022-09-12 -----
Board of Regents 
 

 
 
 
 NAME POSITION/DESIGNATION 

 
 
 
 HON. MYRNA Q. MALLARI Chairperson

CHED Commissioner 

 
 DR. MA. AGNES P. NUESTRO Vice Chairperson

University President

Cavite State University 

 
 HON. LORNA REGINA B. LEGARDA Member

Chairperson, Senate Committee on Higher, Technical and Vocational Education

Represented by:

 HON. MAYOR STRIKE B. REVILLA 

 

 
 HON. JUDE A. ACIDRE Member

Chairperson, House Committee on Higher and Technical Education

Represented by:

 HON. ATTY. ATHENA LYNN P. DOLINA 

 
 HON. CARMEL P. MATABANG Member

Regional Director, DEPDev IV-A 

 
 HON. EMELITA P. BAGSIT Member

Regional Director, DOST-CALABARZON 

 
 HON. REDELLIZA A. GRUEZO Member

OIC, Regional Executive Director, DA IV-A 

 
 HON. RUFINO A. MALANYAON Member

Private Sector Representative 

 
 HON. GABRIEL A. ARUBIO Member

Private Sector Representative 

 
 HON. HERNANDO D. ROBLES Member

Alumni Representative 

 
 HON. ZANNIE I. GAMUYAO Member

Faculty Regent 

 
 HON. ARNHEE JOY F. CLAMOSA Member

Student Regent 

 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 5 March 2026.

----- DOC | General guidelines in the implementation of limited face to face classes | https://cvsu.edu.ph/general-guidelines-in-the-implementation-of-limited-face-to-face-classes/ | 2022-09-07 -----
We are excited as much as you are for the opening of classes on September 12! 

 
 But first, please take note of the following guidelines in the limited face-to-face classes to be implemented this First Semester, 2022-2023.

----- DOC | SPRINT | https://cvsu.edu.ph/sprint/ | 2022-08-03 -----
The SPRINT Center 

 The Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center is an institutional Center of Cavite State University for sugar palm research, development, and extension agenda.

 Our Goal: 

 The Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center serves as the nucleus for the implementation of the University Research and Extension Program and Agenda for Sugar Palm that seeks to develop a sustainable, equitable, and environment-friendly Sugar Palm industry in Indang, Cavite and nearby communities for the improvement of the quality life of its various stakeholders and the maintenance of ecological balance in the municipality's riparian ecosystem.

  

 Objectives 

 
 Conduct a critical assessment of the sugar palm industry in Indang, Cavite, and nearby communities concerning production and post-production systems; extent of production and demand; stakeholders; and policies;

 Develop, test, and verify technologies along nursery management; wood and fiber utilization; postharvest handling and processing; and biotechnology; Establish demonstration farms and marketing centers for sugar palm products;

 Stabilize riparian ecosystems in Indang and nearby communities through the establishment of sugar palm groves;

 Formulate policies and strategies for sugar palm product development

 Package available technologies for publication and conduct training programs for various clientele groups;

 Establish a Geographic Information System (GIS) for productivity and profitability assessment of sugar palm;

 Conduct market promotion for sugar palm products; and such services as ghostwriter bachelor 

 Establish linkage with various stakeholders.

 
 Products and Services 

 

  

 The Center Logo 

 The logo of the Sugar Palm, Research, Information and Trade (SPRINT) Center has the following features and symbolism: The green bands, suggestive of the parallel leaf venation of sugar palm, locally known as “kaong” or “irok”, represent the crop itself.

 The figure on the left is that of a jar often used by farmers to ferment the sweet sap of the plant to make vinegar. The jar signifies the collection of

knowledge and breakthroughs along sugar palms as initiated by the Center.

 The human figure indicates the sugar palm farmers, the ultimate beneficiaries of the programs and activities of the Center.

 The central figure of the logo is two blue parallel lines depicting the river ecosystem, the natural habitat of the crop. The same lines form a big letter “S”, the first letter of the name of the Center. Parallelism speaks of the unity in purpose and approach between and among stakeholders. Green, gold, and white are the dominant colors of the logo denoting the three tenets of CvSU, namely: truth, excellence, and service.

 
  

  

  

 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:
 Landline : (046) 889 1877 
 Mobile: 0921 883 6963
 E-mail : sprintcenter@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | mockup | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mockup/ | 2022-08-02 -----
mockup – Cavite State University 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Skip to content 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 Skip to content 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Cavite State University 
 

 

 
 About 
 
 Mandate, Vision, and Mission 

 History 

 Contacts and Directory 

 Board of Regents 

 International Linkages and Networks 
 
 Creation of ILCLO 

 

 Life@CvSU 
 
 CvSU Hymn 

 Laya at Diwa 

 University Facilities 

 Green Operations 

 

 

 Administration 
 
 Office of the President 
 
 Presidential Management Coordinating Office 

 International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office 
 
 ILCLO Updates 

 About 

 

 Public Affairs and Communications Office 

 Gender and Development Resource Center 
 
 About 

 Services Offered 

 GAD Updates 

 Diversity, Equality, and Inclusion 

 

 Alumni Affairs Office 

 Internal Audit Service 

 SPRINT Center 

 Office of the Board Secretary 
 
 Resolution Passed During Board Meeting 

 Resolution Passed During Administrative Council Meeting 

 

 Legal Services Office 
 
 Legal Services Office 

 Office of the Data Protection Officer 

 

 

 Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs 
 
 University Registrar 

 Library 

 Office of the Student Affairs and Services 

 

 Office of the Vice President for Research And Extension 
 
 Organization and Management 

 Centers 
 
 Research Center 

 Extension Services 

 Knowledge Management Center 

 NCRDEC 

 SPRINT 

 BRITE 

 MRDRIC 

 CELLAR 

 

 ERB + IACUC 

 Opportunities 

 R & E Updates 

 Researchers and Extensionists Profile 

 Contact Us 

 

 Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services 
 
 Administration 

 Finance Management Office 

 Human Resource Development Office 
 
 Grievance Process Flow 

 Grievance Committee Regular Meeting Schedule 

 Grievance Committee Annual Report 

 

 Civil Security Services 

 Health Services 

 Physical Plant Services 

 University Pollution Control Office 

 Contact Details 

 

 Office of the Vice President for Business and Resource Generation 
 
 Office of Business Affairs 

 

 Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development 
 
 Planning Office 

 Institutional Development Office 

 University MIS 

 

 

 Admission 
 
 First Semester SY 2025-2026 Application for Admission 

 Enrolled Students 

 Course Offerings 

 First Semester SY 2025-2026 Admission FAQS 

 

 Campuses and Colleges 
 
 Branch Campuses 
 
 Bacoor Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Carmona Campus 
 
 Research Services Office 

 Extension Services Office 

 Accomplishment Report 

 Officials 

 

 Cavite City Campus 

 General Trias Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Imus Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Maragondon Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Naic Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Rosario Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Silang Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Tanza Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 Trece Martires City Campus 
 
 Officials 

 

 

 Colleges 
 
 College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources 
 
 Historical Background 

 Mission and Goals 

 Curricular Programs 

 Contact Details 

 Officials 

 

 College of Arts and Science 
 
 College Goals 

 Programs Offered 

 Officials 

 Contact Us 

 

 College of Criminal Justice 
 
 Officials 

 

 College of Education 
 
 Historical Background 

 Goals 

 Officials 

 Faculty 

 Curricular Programs 

 

 College of Economics, Management and Development Studies 
 
 Officials 

 

 College of Engineering and Information Technology 
 
 Historical background 

 Mission, Vision, Goals 

 CEIT Quality Objectives 

 Programs Offered 

 CEIT highlights 

 Officials 

 CEIT News and Updates 

 

 College of Nursing 
 
 Historical Background 

 Academic Programs 

 Mission, Vision, Goals 

 Officials 

 

 College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation 
 
 Officials 

 

 College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 
 
 CVMBS Officials 

 

 College of Medicine 
 
 Officials 

 

 College of Tourism and Hospitality Management 
 
 Officials 

 

 Graduate School and Open Learning College 
 
 Historical Background 

 Admission Requirements 

 Courses Offered 

 Officials 

 

 

 

 Students 
 
 Student Portal 

 Foreign Students 
 
 Services Offered for Foreign Students 

 

 Enrolled Students 

 e-Learning 

 Student Organizations 
 
 Official List 

 Contacts 

 

 

 Services 
 
 Integrated Library System 

 Research IS 

 CvSU Events 

 GAD Corner 

 University Calendar 

 Job Portal 

 Downloadable Forms 

 Procurement 
 
 Sustainable Procurement 

 

 

 Sustainability 

 Search 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Other Links

 
 CHED 

 GovPH 

 THAI NGUYEN UNIVERSITY 

 TESDA 

 DOST 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 Visits since 2018
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 2026 Cavite State University | Indang, Cavite, Philippines 

 

 
 
 
 Education Base by Acme Themes 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.

  

 You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in Settings .

  

 
 Close GDPR Cookie Banner 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Accept 
 Reject 
 Settings 
 
 Close GDPR Cookie Banner 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Close GDPR Cookie Settings 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy Overview 
 

 
 
 Strictly Necessary Cookies 
 
 

 
 
 
 Powered by  GDPR Cookie Compliance 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Privacy Overview 
 
 This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.

 

 

 
 
 
 Strictly Necessary Cookies 
 
 Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.

 
 
 
 
 Enable or Disable Cookies 
 
 
 
 Enabled 
 Disabled 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Enable All 
 Save Settings

----- DOC | FY 2022 Procurement Monitoring Report (January-June 2022) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/fy-2022-procurement-monitoring-report-january-june-2022/ | 2022-07-14 -----
FY 2022 PMR – CvSU Main Campus – (Infra-Public Bidding) 

 FY 2022 PMR – CvSU Main Campus – (Goods-Public Bidding) 

 FY 2022 PMR – CvSU Main Campus – (Alternative Mode) 

 FY 2022 PMR – CvSU Rosario Campus 

 FY 2022 PMR – CvSU Naic Campus

----- DOC | Cavite State University Hymn | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cavite-state-university-hymn/ | 2022-06-06 -----
Hail Alma Mater Dear

 CvSU all the way through

 Seat of hope that we dream of

 Under the sky so blue

 

 Verdant fields God's gift to you

 Open our lives a new

 Oh, our hearts, our hands, our minds, too

 In your bossom thrive and grow.

 

 Seeds of hope are now in bloom

 Vigilant sons to you have sworn

 To CvSU our faith goes on

 Cradle of hope and bright vision.

 

 These sturdy arms that care

 Are the nation builders

 Blessed with strength and power

 To our Almighty we offer.

 

 We Pray for CvSU

 God's Blessing be with you

 You're the master, we're the builders

 CvSU leads forever.

----- DOC | Truth · Integrity · Excellence · Service | https://cvsu.edu.ph/truth-integrity-excellence-service/ | 2022-06-04 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) has its humble beginnings in 1906 as the Indang Intermediate School with the American Thomasites as the first teachers. Several transformations in the name of the school took place; Indang Farm School in 1918, Indang Rural High School in 1927, and Don Severino National Agriculture School in 1958. In 1964, the school was converted into a State College by virtue of Republic Act 3917 and became known as Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC).

 On January 22, 1998, by virtue of Republic Act No.8468, DSAC was converted into Cavite State University. In 2001, Cavite College of Fisheries (CACOF) in Naic, Cavite and Cavite College of Arts and Trade (CCAT) in Rosario, Cavite, were integrated to the University by virtue of CHED Memo No. 27 s. 2000. Since then, additional campuses in the province were established through memoranda of agreement with the LGUs. At present, CvSU has 11 campuses in the province. The main campus, approximately 70 hectares in land area and named as Don Severino delas Alas Campus, is in Indang, Cavite.

 CvSU is mandated “to provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction, and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.”

 The University is offering close to 100 curricular programs in the undergraduate and graduate levels. It has more than 25,000 students and 1,200 faculty and staff from all campuses. The University is also authorized to certify and confer appropriate academic degrees in accordance with the Expanded Tertiary Education and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP). It has been accredited by TESDA as Trade and Testing Venue, and designated by the Department of Agriculture as the National Center for Research and Development for Coffee and Urban Agriculture. It also hosts the Southern Tagalog Agriculture Research and Development Consortium (STARDEC), the Affiliated Renewable Energy Center for Region IV-A, and the Regional ICT Center for Region IV-A.

 CvSU adheres to its commitment to Truth, Integrity, Excellence and Service as it aims to be the “premier University in historic Cavite recognized for excellence in the development of globally competitive and morally upright individuals”.

----- DOC | Home Page | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ | 2022-06-04 -----
CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects 
 

 

 

 

 Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects (LEA), achieving a 95.56% passing rate, with 43 out of 45 examinees successfully earning their licenses— surpassing the national passing rate of 85.08%.

 
 Read More

----- DOC | Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Contact Details | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-the-vice-president-for-administrative-and-support-services-contact-details/ | 2021-11-26 -----
VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPPORT SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 Office of the Vice-President for Administrative and Support Services 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 CAMILLE P. ERMINO Administrative Aide IV (046) 419-4278 ovpass@cvsu.edu.ph Financial Transactions, Incoming-Outgoing Communications All Other Concerns 

 
 

 
 Human Resource Development Office 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 RECRUITMENT, SELECTION AND PLACEMENT SECTION (RSP) 

 
 FLORINDO C. ILAGAN Head, RSP (046) 419-4527

0949-772-1045

0995-079-5994 hrdo.rsp@cvsu.edu.ph fcilagan@cvsu.edu.ph Recruitment, Appointments, and submission of employment documents 

 
 LOUISE JOYCE C. SILAN Administrative Aide III ljsilan@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 LEAHLYN S. JOSE Administrative Aide III lsjose@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 REWARDS AND RECOGNITION SECTION (R&R) 

 
 ABIGAIL S. CRUZ Administrative Officer I (046) 419-4527

0949-772-1045

0995-079-5994 hrdo.rnr@cvsu.edu.ph abigailscruz@cvsu.edu.ph Compensation and benefits 

 
 KRISTEL JOY M. MOJICA Administrative Aide III kmmojica@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 LODIVINIA R. AYON Administrative Aide III divieayon@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT SECTION 

 
 ANALYN A. MOJICA Head, LND (046) 419-4527

0949-772-1045

0995-079-5994 hrdo.lnd@cvsu.edu.ph Scholarship requests and queries 

 
 PERFORMANCE AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT SECTION (PMR) 

 
 MARICEL P. CUADRA Administrative Aide III (046) 419-4527

0949-772-1045

0995-079-5994 hrdo.pnr@cvsu.edu.ph cmpcuadra@cvsu.edu.ph Employment records requests Employees' IDs 

 
 JAYSON CABANGLAN Computer Operator I jaysoncabanglan@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 

 
 OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR FOR ADMINISTRATION 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR FOR ADMINISTRATION 

 
 ALYSSA CLARISE S. MATEO Administrative Aide III 0947-937-2215 oda@cvsu.edu.ph Financial Transactions, Incoming-Outgoing Communications 

 
 RECORDS OFFICE 

 
 ED ROLDAN P. ITURRALDE Administrative Aide III 0946-450-9409 records@cvsu.edu.ph edroldan.iturralde@cvsu.edu.ph Financial Transactions, Incoming-Outgoing Communications 

 
 CHRISTIAN C. DILOY Administrative Aide III 0956-482-7458 yanyandiloy@gmail.com Incoming/outgoing communications 

 
 PROCUREMENT OFFICE 

 
 MICHELLE SANTOS Administrative Aide III (046) 862-0852 bacinfra@cvsu.edu.ph BAC Infrastructure Project 

 
 PRECIOSA ERAÑA procurementoffice@cvsu.edu.ph bacgoods@cvsu.edu.ph BAC Goods and Consulting Services 

 
 SUPPLY AND PROPERTY OFFICE 

 
 ALICE PANGANIBAN Administrative Aide III (046) 862-0852 supplyoffice@cvsu.edu.ph Follow-up of Payment 

 
 ROSALIE PELLE Administrative Officer V All Other Concerns 

 
 

 
 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES OFFICE 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

 
 JESSA MARRIS M. GERPACIO Administrative Aide III 0992-528-9204 accounting@cvsu.edu.ph Financial Transactions, Incoming-Outgoing Communications All Other Concerns 

 
 BUDGET OFFICE 

 
 AIFFRELYN C. CANIYA Administrative Aide III 0935-493-4431 budget@cvsu.edu.ph Financial Transactions, Incoming-Outgoing Communications All Other Concerns 

 
 CASHIER'S OFFICE 

 
 MARY NETH P. RAMOS Administrative Aide III 0949-700-6918 cashiersoffice@cvsu.edu.ph Releasing of Checks 

 
 

 
 UNIVERSITY POLLUTION CONTROL OFFICE 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 JUNSER P. MAGPANTAY Director, UPCO (046) 423-1071 pco@cvsu.edu.ph All Concerns related to Pollution Control Office 

 
 

 
 UNIVERSITY CIVIL SECURITY SERVICES 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 ROMULO L.GOMEZ Director, UCSS 0905-126-3900 romygomez.cvsu@gmail.com All Concerns related to Civil Security 

 
 

 
 UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES UNIT 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 AISHA H. DIQUIT Medical Director (046) 423-1335

0917-882-5923 All Concerns related to Health Services Unit 

 
 

 
 AGRI-ECO TOURISM PARK 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 JENNYBEB F. EBO Manager, Agri-Eco Tourism Park (046) 482-4385 agri-ecopark@cvsu.edu.ph jennybeb_ebo@cvsu.edu.ph Bookings/ Reservation All Other Concerns 

 
 

 
 PHYSICAL PLANT SERVICES 

 
 NAME POSITION CONTACT INFORMATION TYPE OF INQUIRIES 

 
 Contact Number/s Email Address 

 
 MARJORIE ANN P. DELAS ALAS Administrative Aide III 0928-738-0008 pps@cvsu.edu.ph Trip Ticket 

 
 ADELINA A. AUSTRAL Administrative Aide I 0909-309-0147 Job Request 

 
 ARNOLD L. LLAMADO Engineering Aide I 0956-002-4977 

 
 GREGORIO B. AVILLA Administrative Aide I 0995-243-1426

0928-432-2477

----- DOC | CEIT News and Updates | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ceit-news-and-updates/ | 2021-09-18 -----
January 2022

 

 CEIT congratulates Architect Licensure Examination (ALE) passers 

 Tatak CvSU!

 National Passing Rate: 62.13%

CvSU Passing Rate: 76.92%

First Time Takers Rate: 76.92% 

 

 
 October 2021 

 CEIT graduate tops agricultural and biosystems engineering board exam 

 Engr. Mariella Jezreel R. Oliver placed eighth in the September 2021 Agricultural and Biosystems Engineer Licensure Examination with a rating of 81.64%.

 

 
 New agricultural and biosystems engineers 

 The university congratulates the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) and the 11 new agricultural and biosystems engineers:

 
 Lino M. Alano II

 Maritoni T. Babaan

 Marie Ann B. De Jesus

 Danielle M. Jimeno

 Liam Rober A. Lagarto

 Denise V. Loredo

 Jan Dominic P. Lucero

 Lira Virginia B. Mora

 Mariella Jezreel R. Oliver

 Sarah Mae C. Pejana

 Arnelyn S. Romilla

 
 CvSU obtained an overall performance of 57.89% (8 out of 11 takers) while the national passing rate is 36.42% (507 out of 1,392 takers). The licensure examination was given by the Professional Regulation Commission on September 29 & 30, 2021.

 
 September 2021 

 CEIT prof bags best presentation award in international conference 

 Mr. Jay-Arr C. Buhain, a faculty of the Department of Engineering and Information Technology won the best presentation award under the Engineering and Technology category during the ASNet Virtual Conference on Education, Social Sciences and Technology (AVEST 2021) held on September 11, 2021 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

 The said paper which was virtually presented is entitled “ Development of a Leave Management and Monitoring System for the Cavite State University Campus Network ”.

 The event was organized by Asian Scholars Network to gather researchers and share the current development in their respective fields.

 

 
 New registered master electricians 

 The University congratulates the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) and the successful examinees of the Master Electrician Licensure Examination given by the Professional Regulation Commission on September 7, 2021.

 The new registered master electricians are:

 
 Erris B. Anciado

 Kiervyn P. Almendras

 Michael T. Belenario

 Francis Nathaniel Caringal

 Justine C. Compra

 Mark Jherwell F. De Guzman

 Prince Sulpie M. Dela Tonga

 John Rick M. Gaco

 Aeron T. Paras

 Kim V. Viernes

 
 Cavite State University posted an overall performance rate of 76.92% (10 out of 13 takers) against the national passing performance of 67.44% (1,506 out of 2,233 takers).

 
 New e lectrical engineers 

 The University congratulates the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) and the successful examinees of the Electrical Engineer Licensure Examination given by the Professional Regulation Commission on September 5 & 6, 2021.

 The new professional electrical engineers are:

 
 Emmanuel C. Cabunilas

 Ian Clark B. Cuento

 
  

 Cavite State University posted a 100 percent passing rate (2 out of 2 takers) while the national passing performance is 64.40% (1,668 out of 2,590 takers).

 
 August 2021 

 CEIT faculty complete graduate studies

 The College of Engineering and Information Technology congratulates two of its faculty members who have received their master's degree on August 7, 2021 at the University of the Philippines Los Baños. Engr. Jose Carlo R. Dizon from the Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering (DAFE) obtained his MS Agricultural Engineering degree while Prof. Russel L. Villacarlos from the Department of Information Technology (DIT) finished his MS in Computer Science.

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Prof. Russel L. Villacarlos (left) and Engr. Jose Carlo R. Dizon (right)

 
 Licensure Exams 

 [ditty_news_ticker id=”7841″]

 
 Other News 

 
 
 
 

 CvSU Updates 2021 

 DATE HEADLINE January Pres Robles designates University officials February Doctors are “necessities”, medical school very important March CvSU signs MOU…

 





 CHED, CEIT innovate dispensers against COVID-19 

 We innovate as one. The first batch of foot pedal-controlled alcohol dispensers and hand wash station prototypes developed by Cavite…

 





 CEIT students won in APPCON2020 

 Team Vortex Dwyte won the "Best Technology" award in APPCON2020: An Invitational Application Development Contest. With the guidance of coach…

----- DOC | Knowledge Management Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/knowledge-management-center/ | 2021-09-01 -----
Vision

 and Mission 
 Quality Objectives 
 Quality Policy 
 Organizational Structure 
 Accomplishments 
 Brochures created by ITSO 
 Downloadable Forms 
 Contact Details 

 
 
  

 The Knowledge Management Center (KMC) is one of the three major units under the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension. It was created, by virtue of Board Resolution No. 58, s. 2017 approved on September 15, 2017, to coordinate with other units in promoting research and extension culture in the University. 

 With its Board of Regents (BOR)-approved and copyrighted Operations Manual,  the Knowledge Management Center aims to increase and sustain engagement in research and innovation in the University through continuous improvement of the dissemination and utilization of research outputs and innovations geared towards attaining sustainable development goals, and ensuring the protection of intellectual property rights. 

 KMC has two major divisions working together to achieve its goal: the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management Division (IPTBMD) and the Publication and Communication Division (PCD).  

 
 Publication and Communication Division . The main function of the Publication and Communication Division is to provide avenues for research and technology information dissemination. Managed by the Head, it is in-charge of all R&E publications of CvSU including but not limited to CvSU Research Journal, discipline-based international peer-reviewed journals, R&E newsletters, technology transfer IEC materials, and the like. 

 Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management Division . The Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management Division is the arm of the University in protecting the interests of inventors and creators while ensuring that the community and society benefit from the fair and full dissemination of knowledge and innovation. This office is managed by the Head, and supported by Managers of the Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) and Knowledge and Technology Transfer Office (KTTO). 

 
  

 Vision 

 The Premier University in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement. 

   

 Mission 

 Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant education opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness. 

   

 Quality Objectives 

 K eep and maintain updated information and facilitate knowledge exchange through locally and internationally recognized publications; 

 M anage and protect intellectual property rights of the University in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements; and 

 C onvert relevant information into shared knowledge essential to the development of the organization and its stakeholders. 

  

 Quality Policy 

 We  C ommit to the highest standards of education,  v alue our stakeholders,  S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and  U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals. 

  

 Organizational Structure

 

 

  

 The KMC Personnel

 

  

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 Accomplishments

  

 Year 2024 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

  

 Year 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Year 2022 

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 Year 2021 

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

 CvSU – IP TBM Platinum Awardee

 Cavite State University (CvSU) – Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) is once again a recipient of the prestigious Platinum Award at the 2023 ITSO Clustering Awards by the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines. The award was given during  the ITSO Presidents' Summit at Dusit Thani Manila in Makati City on March 18, 2024.

 The Platinum Award is the highest recognition given by IPOPHL for ITSOs that have developed specific competencies or expertise over time and for those with the manpower to dispense such expertise.

 CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU-ITSO Manager, Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, and RAISE Project Science Research Assistant, Gerald T. Viado, received the said award.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 Cavite State University – Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management ( CvSU – IP TBM ) received a Platinum Award from the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL) during the ITSO President's Summit 2023 on March 28, 2023 at the Sequoia Hotel, Metro Manila. 

 

 

  

 CvSU's First Registered Industrial Design 

 

  

 Technology Brochures and Posters

  

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 Downloadable Forms

 
 KNMC-QF-08-Cover-Sheet-Research-Journal 

 KNMC-QF-02-Application-Form-Publication-Incentive 

 
 
 
 
 IEC Materials

 
 How to Apply for Copyright Registration 

 How to Apply for Industrial Design Registration 

 How to Apply for Patent and Utility Model Registration 

 How to Apply for Trademark Registration 

 How to Avail Publication Incentives 

 Call for Papers 

 How to be an Authorized Trademark Licensee 

 How to request for the use of CvSU Marks and Symbol 

 List of Authorized Trademark Licensees 

 
 
 
 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:
 Landline : (046) 415-0212
 E-mail : kmc.cvsu@cvsu.edu.ph
 Cellphone No. : 09065032755 
 Facebook Page : fb.com/CvSUKMC 
  

 This page was last edited on 19 June 2023.

----- DOC | Awarded Projects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/bac-awarded-projects/ | 2021-09-01 -----
Awarded Projects 

 2026 

 
 
 
 
 Project Title NOA Contract/PO NTP 

 
 
 
 Construction of Cavite State University General Hospital Phase 1 

 
 Rehabilitation of Four Academic Buildings at Naic Campus 

 
 
 

 Awarded Projects Archived

----- DOC | College of Economics, Management and Development Studies Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-economics-management-and-development-studies-officials/ | 2021-08-19 -----
Dr. Maria Soledad M. Lising 

 Dean, College of Economics, Management and Development Studies
 Designation of CEMDS Officials (May 7, 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Chairperson, Department of Management Dr. Rowena R. Noceda 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Economics Ms. Reinalene Joy A. Casiano 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Development Studies Dr. Glenda S. Pena 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Accountancy Ms. Elizabeth D. Bigalbal 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Office Administration Dr. Aileen A. Ardina 

 
 College Secretary Mr. Gener T. Cueno 

 
 College Registrar Ms. Janice E. Paiton 

 
 Research Coordinator Dr. Jaysi T. Corpuz 

 
 Extension Coordinator Dr. Danikka A. Cubillo 

 
 Quality Assurance Coordinator Dr. Marlon C. Mojica 

 
 Knowledge Management Coordinator Dr. Maria Cristina L. Desepida 

 
 OJT Coordinator

Job Placement Officer Ms. Princess M. Feliciano 

 
 Graduate Program Coordinator Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan 

 
 Alumni Affairs Coordinator

Reading Room In-charge Ms. Angel Rea Mae Martinez 

 
 External Collaboration and Linkages Coordinator Atty. Luis Y. Llarena 

 
 Sports Coordinator Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez 

 
 Socio-Cultural Coordinator Mr. Elmer D. Baybay 

 
 Guidance Facilitator Ms. Paulene C. Serrano 

 
 Gender and Development Coordinator Ms. Betsy Rose S. Fidel 

 
 GAD Alternate Dr. Jo-Anne C. Nuestro 

 
 College Property Custodian Ms. Mailah M. Ulep 

 
 Pollution Control Officer Ms. Sharon C. Matilla 

 
 Civil Security Officer Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan 

 
 Budget Officer Ms. Princess P. Baybay 

 
 Canvasser/Inspector Ms. Maurrin DR. Madrid 

 
 College MIS Officer Ms. Richelle Joy P. Baon 

 
 Project Monitoring Officer Ms. Sherrie Rhose M. Rupido 

 
 College Records Officer Dr. Mary Grace A. Ilagan 

 
 Compliance Officer for Privacy Ms. Rich Erlin Paril 

 
 Public Information Officer Mr. Marc Nicholson Nepomuceno 

 
 Inventory and Supply Officer Ms. Karla Nicole Pereña 

 
 Chair, College IMDU Dr. Mary Grace A. Ilagan 

 
 Member, College IMDU Dr. Jo-Anne C. Nuestro 

 
 Member, College IMDU Dr. Glenda S. Peña 

 
 Member, College IMDU Ms. Sherrie Rhose M. Rupido 

 
 Member, College IMDU Ms. Maria Isolde R. Sustrina 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Management Ms. Mary Grace A. Ilagan 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Economics Ms. Sherrie Rhose M. Rupido 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Development Studies Mr. Jaysi T. Corpuz 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Accountancy Ms. Maria Isolde R. Sustrina 

 
 Research Coordinator, Department of Office Admin. Ms. Joan O. Monastrial 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Management Ms. Paulene C. Serrano 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Economics Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Development Studies Ms. Angel Rea Mae Y. Martinez 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Accountancy Dr. Dolores L. Aguilar 

 
 Extension Coordinator, Department of Office Admin. Dr. Jo-Anne C. Nuestro 

 
 OJT Coordinator, Department of Economics Ms. Reinalene Joy A. Casiano 

 
 OJT Coordinator, Department of Development Studies Ms. Richelle Joy P. Baon 

 
 OJT Coordinator, Department of Accountancy Dr. Dolores L. Aguilar 

 
 OJT Coordinator, Department of Office Admin Ms. Edelita R. Depano 

 
 College 5S Monitoring Task Force Member Mr. Gener T. Cueno 

 
 College 5S Monitoring Task Force Member Ms. Lina Abogadie 

 
 College QMS Monitoring Task Force Member Dr. Marlon C. Mojica 

 
 College QMS Monitoring Task Force Member Ms. Betsy Rose S. Fidel 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 23 June 2025.

----- DOC | University Pollution Control Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-pollution-control-office/ | 2021-07-27 -----
About UPCO 

 The University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) of Cavite State University was formally institutionalized on September 26, 2024, through BOR Resolution No. 42, Series of 2024. Operating under the Office of the University President, the UPCO is headed by the Office Director and a DENR-accredited Pollution Control Officer (PCO). The office spearheads the formulation of policies and the implementation of programs and initiatives aimed at protecting and conserving the university's natural resources. It ensures full compliance with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) standards on environmental regulation, management, monitoring, and permitting, as well as adherence to the provisions of CvSU's Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC).

 Goal 

 To protect and to conserve all the natural resources of the Cavite State University (CvSU) – Don Severino de las Alas Campus such as its land, waters and airshed and vital terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.

  

 Functions: 

 As an environmental unit of the Cavite State University (CvSU) – Don Severino de las Alas Campus, UPCO is responsible in implementing the CvSU's Environmental Policies in accordance to its Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) issued by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and to comply with their standards in terms of environmental regulation, management, monitoring and permitting of the University.

  

 Objectives: 

 
 Implement the Solid Waste Management Plan of Cavite State University;

 Promote environmental management policies of the University through a systematic orientation and awareness campaign programs;

 Conduct inventory of trees and wildlife within the University and ensure that no trees are cut without necessary permit in accordance with the law;

 Ensure that hunting, catching or possessing of any kind of wildlife found in the University such as cloud rats, civet cats, snakes, birds, bats monitor lizard and any other related animals is prohibited;

 Spearhead in the implementation of centralized sewage treatment/management system that shall collect, store and treat all sewage wastes from all units of CvSU and disposal of treated wastes following the standards set by the DENR-Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) Department Administrative Order (DAO) 2016-8 for class C waters;

 Ensure that policies of the University related to traffic and vehicular emissions is properly implemented;

 Lead the adaptation of strategies in managing or mitigating the dangers of fire, bomb threats, chemical spills, earthquakes and other form of accidents, disasters or risk that may occur or affect the University; and

 Establish linkage with various stakeholders.

 
 CvSU Environmental Management Policies 

 
 Establishment of the University Pollution Control Office

 Total Plastic Ban Policy

 “Garbage In – Garbage Out” Policy

 Proper Waste Segregation and Imposition of Penalties for Violations

 Trees and Wildlife Protection

 Vehicular Emissions and Traffic

 Sewage Treatment

 Natural Disaters and Risks Management

 Environmental Education and Awareness

 
 Contact Details
 

Asst. Prof. Liwayway P. Taglinao

Director, University Pollution Control Office

(046)483 9250 local 1051

 pco@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | sample duplicate page | https://cvsu.edu.ph/sample-duplicate-page/ | 2021-05-03 -----
https://youtu.be/_4bQ1Z9gUuA?autoplay=0&showinfo=0&controls=0 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Enrollment Trend

 
 

 
 
 
 News Updates

 

 
 
 

 CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects 

 Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects…

 

 CvSU ranks 1001-1500th in THE Sustainability Impact Ratings 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved to 1001-1500th ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) Sustainability Impact Ratings 2026. 

 

 Congratulations to CvSU's 38 new CPAs 

 Cavite State University recognizes the hard work, dedication, and perseverance of our examinees as we achieved a 57.58% overall performance…

 
 View All News Updates 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 Announcements

 

 
 
 

 CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects 

 Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects…

 

 CvSU ranks 1001-1500th in THE Sustainability Impact Ratings 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved to 1001-1500th ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) Sustainability Impact Ratings 2026. 

 

 Congratulations to CvSU's 38 new CPAs 

 Cavite State University recognizes the hard work, dedication, and perseverance of our examinees as we achieved a 57.58% overall performance…

 
 View All News Updates 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 Academic Calendar

 
 
 
 
 Activities 
 Date 

 
 
 
 Evaluation/Pre-Registration Period (New Students) 
 July 1-30, 2021 

 
 Registration Period 
 July 27 - August 31, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Beginning of Classes 
 September 6, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Last day for Adding and Changing of Subjects 
 September 24, 2021 

 
 Last day for Dropping of Subject(s) without evaluation 
 October 1, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Preliminary Examination) (1st Payment) 
 September 20-23, 2021 

 
 College Academic Council Meetings 
 October 7, 2021 

 
 Preliminary Examinations 
 October 11 - 16, 2021 

 
 Last day of filing of application for graduation (College Registrar) 
 October 21, 2021 

 
 Submission of List of Candidates for Mid-Year Graduation by the Deans to OUR together with Application for Graduation 
 October 28, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Midterm Examination) (2nd payment) 
 October 25 - 28, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Midterm Examination 
 November 2 - 6, 2021 

 
 Academic Break 
 November 8-13, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Submission of Complete List of Qualified Candidates for Mid-Year Graduation by the OUR to OVPAA 
 November 18, 2021 

 
 Pre Employment Seminar 
 November 16 - 18, 2021 

 
 Student Evaluation for Teachers and Classroom Observation 
 November 2 - 11, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Pre-Final Exam) (3rd payment) 
 November 15 - 25, 2021 

 
 Last Day of Submission of Classroom Observation Report 
 December 2, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Pre-Final Examination 
 November 9 - December 4, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Last Day of Settlement of Deficiencies for Graduating Students 
 December 23, 2021 

 
 Last Day for Thesis Final Defense (Graduating) 
 January 8, 2022 

 
 Payment of Fees for graduating students (Final Examination) (4th payment) 
 December 20, 2021 - January 6, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Final Examination (Graduating) 
 January 3-8, 2022 

 
 Final Examination (Non-Graduating) 
 January 10 - 13, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Last Day of Submission and Uploading of Grades (Graduating) 
 January 13, 2022 

 
 Last Day of Submission and Uploading of Grades (Non-Graduating) 
 January 20, 2022 

 
 Submission of Faculty Workload to OVPAA 
 January 17, 2022 

 
 Removal Examination (grade of 4.0) 
 January 17-20, 2022 

 
 Submission of Manuscript 
 January 24, 2022 

 
 Last Day of Submission of Report of Completion (for any deficiency) 
 January 26, 2022 

 
 Submission of Graduation Clearance 
 January 27, 2022 

 
 College Academic Council Meetings 
 February 1-4, 2022 

 
 University Academic Council Meeting 
 February 10, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Graduation Day 
 TBA 

 
 
 

 
 Christmas Break 
 December 24, 2021 - January 2, 2022 

 
 Semestral Break 
 January 17 - February 6, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 Open Calendar

----- DOC | Citizen's Charter | https://cvsu.edu.ph/citizens-charter-page/ | 2021-03-31 -----
ARTA_Memorandum_Circular_No_2020-04 

 Briefer on R.A. No. 11032 

 Briefer on the Citizen's Charter Guidelines 

  

 CITIZEN'S CHARTER 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2026 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2026 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2025 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2025 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2024 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2024 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2023 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2023 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2022 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2022 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2021 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2021 

 Cavite State University Citizen's Charter 2020 

 Certificate of Compliance – Year 2020 

  

 This page was last edited on 5 January 2026.

----- DOC | Request for Proposal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/request-for-proposal/ | 2021-03-05 -----
2021:

 Deadline for Submission: March 

 March 15

 
 Structural Engineer 

 Procurement of Services of a Certifying Body for the Re-Certification of the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System of CvSU

----- DOC | International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/international-and-local-collaborations-and-linkages-office/ | 2021-02-10 -----
By virtue of BOR Resolution No. 8, s. 2019, the Office of the University President was restructured, thereby adding the International and Local Collaborations and Local Linkages Office (ILCLO).

 It shall have the following functions:

 
 Act as the clearing house for local and international MOUs and MOAs for endorsement to the Administrative Council and Board of Regents;

 Identify and discuss issues to the Executive Council that may impact on University's Internationalization Strategy;

 Respond to proposals referred by Colleges/Campuses that relate to local and international linkages;

 Ensure transfer of information, knowledge and identification of linkages in both local and international to the Academic Council of Colleges and Campuses;

 Provide forum for the development and exchange of good practices in international and local activities;

 Serve as liaison officer in relation to local and international research and academic collaboration with other agencies; and

 Manage all communication/ documents in relation to student and faculty exchanges, study visit and the like between and among academic partners.

 
 Contact Us

 Email: iclo@cvsu.edu.ph 

 FB page: https://www.facebook.com/Cavite-State-University-International-and-Local-Collaboration-and-Linkages-988729257985995

----- DOC | College of Engineering and Information Technology Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/college-of-engineering-and-information-technology-officials/ | 2020-12-09 -----
Dr. Willie C. Buclatin 

 Dean, College of Engineering and Information Technology
 Designation of CEIT Officials (May 2025 to December 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Chairperson, Department of Agriculture and Food Engineering (DAFE) Engr. Al Owen Roy A. Ferrera 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Civil Engineering (DCEA) Engr. Roslyn P. Peña 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Computer, Electronics, and Electrical Engineering (DCEEE) Dr. Michael T. Costa 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Industrial Engineering and Technology (DIET) Mr. Danielito R. Escaño 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Information Technology (DIT) Prof. Charlotte B. Carandang  

 
 College Secretary

College Inspector Dr. Marlon R. Pereña 

 
 College Budget Officer Engr. Marivic G. Dizon 

 
 College Registrar  Engr. Florence M. Banasihan 

 
 Assistant College Registrar

Records Custodian Mr. Jake R. Ersando 

 
 College MIS

ILCLO Ms. Vanessa G. Coronado 

 
 Coordinator, Research Services

Coordinator, Graduate Programs Dr. Edwin R. Arboleda 

 
 Coordinator, Research Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Engr. Nemilyn A. Fadchar 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Services Ms. Anabelle J. Almarez 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Engr. Dina P. Bawag 

 
 College OJT Coordinator Engr. Efren R. Rocillo 

 
 Coordinator, College Quality Assurance and Accreditation Engr. Poinsettia A. Vida 

 
 Asst. Coordinator, College Quality Assurance and Accreditation Engr. Rose Ann E. Sumadsad 

 
 Coordinator, Knowledge Management Unit Mr. Marlon F. Cruzate 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Program Ms. Aiza E. Bihis 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Program (alternate) Ms. Ria Clarisse M. Sy 

 
 Coordinator, Sports Development Engr. Ernick R. Romen 

 
 Coordinator, Socio-cultural Development Arch. Kenn Paolo C. Valero 

 
 Coordinator, Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI)

College Public Information Officer Engr. Geri Taguian 

 
 Coordinator, Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI) Engr. Jay Vee L. Lacostales 

 
 Coordinator, Pollution Control Ms. Julie Ann C. Lontoc 

 
 College Review Coordinator for BSABE and BSCE Engr. John Paulo M. Perido 

 
 College Review Coordinator for BSECE and BSEE Engr. Cenon D. Lumabad III 

 
 College Guidance Facilitator for BSABE, BSIT, BSCS, and Architecture Programs Ms. Gladys G. Perey 

 
 College Guidance Facilitator for BSCE, BSECE, BSEE, BSCpE, BSIE and BIT programs Engr. Andy A. Dizon 

 
 College Job Placement Officer Mr. Simeon Daez 

 
 College Property Custodian Mr. Mark Philip M. Sy 

 
 College Canvasser Mr. Bernard A. Rojas 

 
 College Canvasser Mr. Mark Clifford C. Alano 

 
 In-charge, College Reading Room Mr. Ace Amiel E. Malicsi  

 
 In-charge, Material Testing Laboratory Engr. Larry E. Rocela 

 
 College Civil Security Officer Mr. Keno S. Domingo 

 
 College Safety Officer Engr. Joselito A. Flores, Jr. 

 
 In-charge, Simulation and Math Laboratory Engr. Sheryl D. Fenol 

 
 Head, CCL and Technical Support Services Unit Engr. Bienvenido C. Sarmiento 

 
 University Web Master Mr. James Angelo V. Aves 

 
 In-charge, e-Learning Team Ms. Ezra Marie F. Ramos 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 30 July 2025.

----- DOC | Student Organizations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/student-organizations/ | 2020-11-18 -----
Recognized Student Organizations 

 AY 2024-2025 

 ACADEMIC ORGANIZATIONS

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Default sorting 
 
 Sort by date (newest) 
 
 Sort by date (oldest) 
 
 Sort by title (A-Z) 
 
 Sort by title (Z-A) 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Electrical Technology Student Organization (ETSO) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Society of Future Economist (SFE) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Thoroughbreds (TORO) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Pragmaticus 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Society of Industrial Technology Electronic Students (SITES) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Tourism Students Association (TOURISTA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Elite League of Information Technology Students (ELITS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants (JPIA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Computer Science Student Organization (CSSO) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Operations Management Association (JOMA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Financial Executives Institute of the Philippines (JFINEX) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Education Circle 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Social Workers' Association of the Philippines – CvSU Chapter (JSWAP) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Circle of Hotel and Restaurant Management Students (CHARMS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Philippine Association of Students in Office Administration (PASOA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Institute of Integrated Electrical Engineers Council of Student Chapter - Cavite State University – Main Campus (IIEE-CSC) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior People Management Association of the Philippines (JPMAP) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Studies Students Association 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 UTOPIA – The Society of BA Political Science Students 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 United Architects of the Philippines Student Auxiliary (UAPSA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Philippine Society of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers – Pre-Professional Group, CvSU Chapter (PSABE-PPG) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Society of Service Associates (JSSA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Philippine Institute of Civil Engineers – CvSU Chapter (PICE) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 International Veterinary Students' Association- Cavite State University (IVSA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Philippine Computer Society CvsU Chapter (JPCS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Psychology Circle 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Mitochondrion Society (MITOSOC) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Venerable Knight Veterinarians-Venerable Lady Veterinarians (VKV-VLV) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Paddocks Society 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Junior Marketing Association (JMA) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Salinlahi Organization 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Radicands - CvSU Cluster of Applied Mathematics 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Philippine Society of Medical Technology Students – CvSU Chapter (PHISMETS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Industrial Security Student Society (ISSS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU- Junior Institute of Electronics Engineers of the Philippines (CvSU - Jr. IEcEP) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 class

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU League of Automotive Superb Students (CLASS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Philippine Institute of Industrial Engineers – CvSU Chapter (PIIE-CSC) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Rodeo Club (RC) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Journalism Guild 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Computer Engineering Students Society (COESS) 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 criminology society

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Criminology Society 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Matayuyon Crop Science Society (MCSS) 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 NON-ACADEMIC ORGANIZATIONS 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Default sorting 
 
 Sort by date (newest) 
 
 Sort by date (oldest) 
 
 Sort by title (A-Z) 
 
 Sort by title (Z-A) 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU – The Asclepian Society (ASCLEPSOC) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU - Silayan 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Otaku Society 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Criminal Justice – Information, Communications and Technical Team 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Hornets Cheer Squad 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Argumentum El Debaztere Society (AEDS) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Musikeros 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Gazette 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU College of Criminal Justice Emergency Response and Airsoft Team (CERAT) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CSPEAR – Performing Arts Troupe 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Foreign Students Association (FSA) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 University First Year – Student Council (UFY-SC) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 YTR Youth Organization Inc. (YOUTH ON THE ROCK) 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

  

 STUDENT COUNCILS 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Criminal Justice Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering and Information Technology - Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Education-Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Arts and Sciences Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Central Student Government 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies - Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources– Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Nursing Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences - Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation - Student Council 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

  

 PERFORMING ARTS GROUP 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Prime Moverz & Primera Hija (THE PRMMVRZ&PRMRHJ) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Cultural Dance Troupe (CCDT) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Student Artiste Society (STARS) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU Chorale Ensemble (CCE) 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Christian Brotherhood International (CBI) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CFC – Youth For Christ (CFC-YFC) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Debtors to Saviour Mission (DSM) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU - Outreach Ministry (SCOM) 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CvSU - Wildfire 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Found In Saviours Heart Generation (FISHGEN) 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 HIGH SCHOOL 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Kalinangan 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Kasarinlan 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Pagkakaisa 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Sandigan 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Sandiwa 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Barangay Tanglaw 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cultural Organization 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Journalism Club Filipino Club 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Math Club 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Robotics Club 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Student Body Organization 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Young Scientist Club

----- DOC | LDML Vision, Mission, Objectives | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ldml-vision-mission-objectives/ | 2020-11-13 -----
LADISLAO N. DIWA MEMORIAL LIBRARY (LDML ) 

 LDML Vision 

 Library that will be recognized for its excellent service as its contribution to the development of globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

 LDML Mission 

 Ladislao N. Diwa Memorial Library shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant library services and resources in support with the University's mission.

 LDML Goals 

   To support the University in its main thrust of field of expertise by providing adequate, updated and relevant collection of research and reference materials to its clientele composed of students, faculty and other researchers in the community.

 LDML Objectives 

 The University Library aims to:

 
 Establish a collection that will be at par with other modern libraries not only in the region but also at national and international levels;

 Encourage maximum utilization of its collection by making it readily available and accessible to users; and

 Coordinate with all colleges and campuses in the selection and acquisition of materials needed to supplement research and instruction.

----- DOC | CAFENR Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cafenr-officials/ | 2020-10-26 -----
Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio 

 Dean, College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources
 Designation of CAFENR Officials (January 2024 to December 2024) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 2023 

 
 
 
 Chair, Department of Animal Science (DAS) Mariedel L. Autriz 

 
 Chair, Department of Agricultural Entrepreneurship (DAE) Guillermo P. Desenganio 

 
 Chair, Department of Crop Science (DCS) Abigail P. Daria 

 
 Chair, Department of Forestry and Environmental Science (DFES) Ailene H. Calamlam 

 
 Chair, Institute of Food Science and Technology (IFST) Heidi P. Paler 

 
 College Secretary and Guidance Facilitator Monina Dyan R. Elumba 

 
 College Registrar Marie Abigail I. Cortado 

 
 Program Head, Bachelor of Science in Agriculture Cristina F. Olo 

 
 Program Head, Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science Noel A. Sedigo 

 
 Program Head, Bachelor of Science in Food Technology Heidi P. Paler 

 
 Program Head, Bachelor in Agricultural Entrepreneurship Guillermo P. Desenganio 

 
 Coordinator

Research and Knowledge Management

Climate Change

Instructional Material Development Unit Glenn Bryan A. Creencia 

 
 Coordinator, Job Placement and Alumni

Alternate, Research and Knowledge Management Gary A. Pareja 

 
 Coordinator, Extension Ma. Cecille B. Anuada 

 
 Alternate, Extension Patrick M. Montealto 

 
 Coordinator, Gender and Development Program Remilyn V. Concepcion 

 
 Alternate, Gender and Development Program Jan Edrea D. Cortes 

 
 Coordinator, Quality Assurance and Accreditation Cristina F. Olo 

 
 Coordinator

Sports and Socio-cultural Activities

National Certificate Training and Assessment

EDP in Agriculture Entrepreneurship Jefferson M. Mojica 

 
 Coordinator, OJT/Farm Practice in Agriculture Edgardo A. Gonzales 

 
 Coordinator, OJT in Food Technology Eufemio G. Barcelon

Aitee Janelle E. Reterta 

 
 College Inspector Jhon Vincent C. Caisip 

 
 Budget Officer, Liaison Officer, and Canvasser Meynard C. Ramos 

 
 Property Custodian

Monitoring and Evaluation Officer

5S Coordinator Elma E. Gappe 

 
 College International Officer Venus O. Saz 

 
 Clerk, College Registrar's Office Marianne Joy C. Matel 

 
 Coordinator, Pollution Control Melody M. Ramos 

 
 DEPARTMENT LEVEL 

 
 Extension Coordinators 

 
 DAS Patrick M. Montealto 

 
 DAE Guillermo P. Desenganio 

 
 DCS Venus O. Saz 

 
 DFES Junser P. Magpantay 

 
 IFST Remilyn V. Concepcion 

 
 Research and Knowledge Management Coordinators 

 
 DAS Gary A. Pareja 

 
 DAE Guillermo P. Desenganio 

 
 DCS Jhon Vincent C. Caisip 

 
 DFES Glenn Bryan A. Creencia 

 
 IFST Marie Abigail I. Cortado 

 
 Laboratory In-charge 

 
 Soils Laboratory Venus O. Saz 

 
 Crop Science Laboratory Abigail P. Daria 

 
 Animal Nutrition Laboratory Ma. Cecille B. Anuada 

 
 Animal/Meat Processing Laboratory Mariedel L. Autriz 

 
 Food Product Development/Processing Laboratory Dezzerie Gyle A. Hermoso 

 
 Physio-Chemical Laboratory Marie Abigail I. Cortado 

 
 Food Microbiology Laboratory Remilyn V. Concepcion 

 
 Food Sensory Laboratory Jan Edrea D. Cortes 

 
 EnGIRS Laboratory Junser P. Magpantay 

 
 In-charge, Instructional Enterprise and Technology Demonstration Sites 

 
 Poultry Patrick M. Montealto 

 
 Goat Cristina F. Olo 

 
 Swine Production Mariedel L. Autriz 

 
 Artificial Insemination and Animal Biosecurity Camilo E. Polinga, Jr. 

 
 Pasture and Forage Crops Gary A. Pareja 

 
 Crop Production Instructional Enterprise and Agri-technopreneurship Demonstration Site Venus O. Saz, Project Head

Components Heads:

Venus O. Saz (Research)
Guillermo P. Desenganio (Instruction)
Edgardo A. Gonzales (Production)

Production Staff:
- Jowel R. Salamatin
- Raymond A. Agtarap

 

 
 Tool Keeper and Ornamental Propagator Susana P. Viado 

 
 Culinary Herbs, Aromatics and Medicinal Plants Abigail P. Daria
 - Alex G. Barrot 

 
 Plantation Crop Demonstration Area (New Acquired Land, Faculty Village and ICoN) Venus O. Saz
- Frederico Abestado
- Mark Aljon R. Tanteo 

 
 Ornamentals and Landscaping John Vincent C. Caisip
- Resty M. Lucero 

 
 Fruit Crop Nursery Jefferson M. Mojica
- Danilo Perando 

 
 DAS Building Custodian and Animal Farm Technician Renan E. Catarroja 

 
 Crop-Science Building Key Keeper Alex G. Barrot 

 
 Agri-Science Building Key Keeper Resty M. Lucero 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 31 January 2024.

----- DOC | Contact Details | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cafenr-contact-details/ | 2020-10-19 -----
Telephone: (046) 423 1162

 E-mail address:  cafenr@cvsu.edu.ph 

 Social media pages:
 
 Araw ng Kalikasan sa CvSU:  https://www.facebook. com/cvsuarawngkalikasan/ 

 CvSU Environmental Geo-Information and Remote Sensing Laboratory:  https://www. facebook.com/Cvsu- Environmental-Geo-Information- and-Remote-Sensing-Laboratory- 104676587621183/

----- DOC | Curricular Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cafenr-curricular-programs/ | 2020-10-19 -----
GRADUATE 

 
 – Doctor of Philosophy in Agriculture major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 Farming System

 
 – Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science

 – Master of Science in Agriculture major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 Farming System

 Crop Protection

 
 – Master of Science in Food Science

 
 UNDERGRADUATE 

 
 BS Agriculture major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 
 – BS in Environmental Science

 – BS in Food Technology

 – BS in Land Use Design and Management

 – Bachelor in Agricultural Entrepreneurship

 – Certificate in Agricultural Science

----- DOC | Mission and Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cafenr-mission-and-goals/ | 2020-10-19 -----
College Mission 

 The College shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in agriculture and natural resource management through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce knowledgeable, skilled, technologically advanced, just and moral graduates.

 College Goals 

 The College aims to:

 
 Produce technically competent and scientifically oriented graduates who are imbued with strong entrepreneurial spirit possess strong social consciousness, and guided by positive values and high ethical standards;

 Conduct relevant research and development activities along agriculture, food, environment  and natural resource management;

 Implement effective training and outreach programs that emphasize self-help, critical thinking and life-long learning;

 Manage agricultural enterprises, projects and technology incubators to promote economically viable and environment- friendly approaches and techniques; and

 Establish strong linkage with non-governmental organizations, other government entities and the community for the realization of the common goals.

----- DOC | Historical Background | https://cvsu.edu.ph/historical-background/ | 2020-10-19 -----
History 

 1964 – RA 3917 coverted DSNAS to Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC)

 – Offered BS Agriculture and BS Agricultural Education

 1971 – Offered Certificate in Technical Agriculture

 1980 – Implemented the Agricultural Education Outreach Project (AEOP)

 1983 – Started the Sanayan sa Kakayahang Agrikultura (SAKA) Project

 1986 – DSAC was designated as the National Training and Demonstration Center for Fruit and Vegetable-Based Products (NTDC-FVBP)

 1993 – DSAC was designated as the Regional College of Agriculture (RCA) for Southern Tagalog

 1998 – College of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) as the name of the college was born

 2000 – 2009  – CvSU was designated Center of Development for Agriculture by CHED

 2001 – Department of Forestry and Environment Science was created

 2003 – BSA program passed seocnd resurvey of AACCUP towards Level III

 2009 – CvSU designated by CHED as Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) Center in Agriculture

 2009 – CvSU identified as Provincial Institute for Agriculture under National Agriculture for Fisheries and Education System

 2016 – Champion, 6 th National Agricultural Science Quiz Contest sponsored by UPLB Phytopathological Society

 2016 – CvSU was designated CHED – Center of Excellence in Agriculture

 2016 – BS Agriculture program was re-accredited Level IV by AACCUP

 2018 – CvSU was recognized as Member of Good Standing by the Asian Association of Agricultural Colleges and Universities (AAACU), Inc.

 2018 – Grand Champion, 7 th National Agricultural Quiz Contest organized by UPLB Phytopathological Society

 2018 – CvSU was recognized as Delivering Institution of Graduate Programs in for CHED K-12 Scholars

 2019 – BS Environmental Science program as accredited Level IV by AACCUP, Inc.

----- DOC | Services Offered | https://cvsu.edu.ph/gad-services-offered/ | 2020-10-12 -----
1. Capacity Building 

 Seminar/Workshop/Training on: 

 
 
 
 Gender Sensitivity

 GAD Planning and Budgeting

 Gender Analysis and GA Tools

 Harmonized GAD Guidelines

 Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework

 Gender Mainstreaming

 Integration of GAD in Instruction

 Integration of GAD in Research

 Integration of GAD in Extension

 Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning

 Others

 

 
 Orientation on: 

 
 
 
 Gender and Development

 Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 (RA 7877)

 Anti-Violence Against Women and their Children Act of 2004 (RA 9262)

 Anti-Rape Law of 1997 (RA 8353)

 Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003 (RA 9208)

 Anti-Bullying Act of 2013 (RA 10627)

 Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression

 Magna Carta of Women

 Others

 

 
 2. Livelihood and Entrepreneurship 

 3. Counselling

----- DOC | College of Nursing Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/con-officials/ | 2020-05-20 -----
Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo 

 Dean, College of Nursing
 Designation of CON Officials (Academic Year 2024-2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 
 
 Chairperson -Nursing/Over-all Clinical Coordinator Jocelyn B. Dimayuga, RN, MAN 

 
 Chairperson of Medical Technology Department Teodora T. Valderama, RMT, MPH 

 
 Chairperson/Principal of Midwifery Department Hydra Jane O. Pantilgan, RM, BSM, MPH 

 
 College Secretary

College Records Custodian

Lantern Adviser Jezza Jonah C. Aclan, RN, MPH 

 
 College Registrar

College Civil Security and Safety Officer Joinito A. Ofracio, RN, MAN 

 
 College Guidance Facilitator

College GAD Coordinator Mary Antoniette D. Viray, RN, MAN 

 
 Program Coordinator - BSN

College Sports and Socio-Cultural Coordinator Sunny Rose M. Ferrera, RN, MAN 

 
 Program Coordinator - BSMT

PHISMET Adviser Karen Krista E. Cajilis, RMT, MSMT 

 
 Program Coordinator - BSM

ISMAP Adviser Charmaine Kelly P. Mesina, RM, BSM, MPH, LPT 

 
 College Research Coordinator Caridad C. Lintao, RN, MAN 

 
 College Extension Coordinator Ederlyn P. Destura, RN, MAN 

 
 College Quality Assurance

Accreditation Coordinator Nenita B. Panaligan, RN, MAN 

 
 College Job Placement Coordinator

College GAD Alternate Lei Ann B. Rupido, RM, RN, MAN, LPT 

 
 College Property Custodian and Inspector Phaebi B. Romen, RM, RN, MAN 

 
 College Budget Officer

College Canvasser Glaizalyn N. Camayang, RM, RN, MAN 

 
 College Maternity and Lying-in Coordinator (BSM)

College Budget Officer and College Canvasser Alternate Merry Rose J. Olegario, RM,BSM 

 
 College MIS and Public Information Officer (PIO)

Compliance Officer for Privacy (COP)

CON-SC Adviser Louis Carlos Roderos, RN, MAN 

 
 College International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Coordinator

SC-Co-Adviser Karen Louela Rint-Herrera, RN, MAN 

 
 College Internship Coordinator (BSMT)

College Pollution Control Coordinator Jonnel P. Andaya, RMT 

 
 College Alumni Coordinator

Reading Room In-Charge Cristine Joy M. Versoza, RMT 

 
 Laboratory Aide - Nursing and Midwifery Department Wilma C. Penales 

 
 Laboratory Aide - Medical Technology Mae Ranella L. Rint 

 
 Administrative Aide I Arlene M. Costa 

 
 Assistant College Registrar

HR Coordinator Kristel Joy Ravelo 

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 24 April 2025.

----- DOC | Mission, Vision, Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/con-mission-vision-goals/ | 2020-05-20 -----
College Vision

 The College of Nursing of Cavite State University envisions being one of the nation's leading nursing institutions in providing excellent instruction and opportunities for research, practice, and service.

  

 College Mission

 The mission of College of Nursing is to educate students, advance the discipline of nursing through research, provide service that is responsive to the health care needs of the public, and demonstrate local, national and international leadership for the profession.

  

 College Goals

 The College of Nursing shall endeavor to achieve the following goals:

 
 produce technically and scientifically oriented graduate imbued with a deep sense of professionalism, possess strong social consciousness, and guided by positive values and high ethical standard;

 conduct evidence-based research and extension services towards the provision of safe, holistic and quality nursing care;

 implement effective training and outreach programs that emphasize self-help; critical thinking and lifelong learning; and

 establish strong linkage with non-governmental organization, other government entities and the community at large for the realization of the common goals.

----- DOC | Academic Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/con-academic-programs/ | 2020-05-20 -----
Degree Programs 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Nursing (4 years)

 Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology / Medical Laboratory Science (4 years)

 Bachelor of Science in Midwifery (Bridging program 2 years)

 
 Non-Degree Programs 

 
 Diploma in Midwifery (2 years)

 
  

 BSN Program Objectives 

 The Bachelor of Science in Nursing program shall:

 
 provide nursing education that is relevant and responsive to the emerging trends and global nursing practice and development;

 produce highly technical and competitive nursing professionals updated with latest trends and skills and appropriate knowledge, and attitude necessary to render nursing care with competency and dedication;

 implement effective training and outreach programs that emphasize self-help, critical thinking and lifelong learning; and

 establish strong linkage with non- governmental organization, other government entities and the community at large for the realization of the common goals.

 
 Specifically, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program shall produce graduates who:

 
 gainfully employed in various health care facilities;

 can apply acquired knowledge and skills in various areas of specialization in nursing utilizing the nursing process, critical thinking, research which is guided by ethico-moral standard of nursing practice;

 are engaged in evidence-based practices, researches for the advancement of Nursing Profession;

 are able to speak with ease and confidence at all levels of communication within and outside of the organization;

 engaged in various trainings, seminars, conferences and graduate programs as tool for career advancement; and

 demonstrate safe nursing practice, social responsibility, commitment to service just and humane with social responsibility to people in all settings across the life span.

 
  

 BSMT/MLS Program Objectives 

 The Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Science program shall:

 
 produce globally competitive medical technology professionals that are scientifically oriented, technically competent and equipped with professional ethics and moral values;

 administer scientific-based research and extension activities aimed towards the delivery of safe and quality diagnostic services;

 conduct efficient training and programs that accentuate self-improvement, analytical thinking and critical judgement; and

 create a professional relationship with both government and non-government entities for the achievement of common interest.

 
 Specifically, a graduate of BS Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Science is expected to:

 
 develop the knowledge, skills, professional attitude, and values in the performance of clinical laboratory procedures needed to help the physician in the proper diagnosis, treatment, prognosis, and prevention of diseases;

 acquire critical thinking skills in Medical Technology / Medical Laboratory Science;

 engage in research and community-related activities;

 participate in activities related to promoting the profession and actively engage in life-long learning undertakings; and

 develop collaborative and leadership qualities.

 
  

 BSM Program Objectives 

 Diploma in Midwifery Objectives 

 The Bachelor of Science in Midwifery and Diploma in Midwifery Programs shall:

 
 provide midwifery education that will produce professional midwife who works in partnership with women and assist in the provision of newborn and infant who are ethically, morally, ad responsive health care providers to the emerging needs, trends and innovations in the primary health care settings within the community;

 engage in scientific-based research and extension activities aimed towards the delivery of safe and quality provision of health services to constituents and community;

 conduct efficient trainings and programs that accentuate self-improvement, critical judgement, and development for faculty and students; and

 create a professional relationship with both government and non-government entities for the achievement of quality midwifery education and community services.

----- DOC | Health Services | https://cvsu.edu.ph/health-services/ | 2020-03-02 -----
Introduction 

 The CvSU Health service is basically a supportive unit of University. It is in charged with the delivery of the basic health services which are promotive, preventive, and curative and to some extent rehabilitative. Its vital role is towards the achievements of delivering quality, affordable accessible health services with maximum enjoyment of good health to its clientele.

 Its services are also extensively utilized by the University for its student practicum, on the job training and in varying degrees for health manpower development and research as well as for rural development program.

  

 Rationale: 

 For the past few years the Health services unit has been extending services to CvSU students, faculty members, and employees. Dependents and immediate family members of the faculty members and staff also avail of the free services of the unit. At present, with more than 7,000 clientele, the Unit can no longer meet their demands hence it is proposed to have a secondary hospital to be duly licensed by the Department of Health and accredited by Phil health. As a secondary hospital it will be capable of handling simple and uncomplicated case as well as major and minor surgical cases which require the attention of specialist Doctors and the use of medical equipments and facilities. Serious cases which require the use of sophisticated equipment are then referred to a tertiary hospital.

 Our clientele are with priority but not limited for students, faculty members and staff but also extended to outsiders particularly the GSIS and SSS members under the provision of Phil health as well as the poorest ones.

  

 Mission : 

 To provide the highest attained patient care by making “the right to health” a reality through:

 
 delivering quality, affordable and accessible health services

 arousing community health awareness

 promoting better health services in the work place

 mobilizing health resources

 
  

 Vision: 

 Health is a basic human right. A continuous set of quality services must be provided to assure the reality of this right, not only to the academic community of the University but also to the resident of Indang and nearby municipalities.

  

 Objectives: 

 In order to realize our vision and mission, we have the following general and specific objectives.

  

 General Objectives: 

 
 To provide the best possible promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative health services to the clients

 To deliver quality, affordable, accessible health services

 
  

 Specific Objectives: 

 A) To provide curative care in terms of the following:

 a.1 out patient medical and dental consultation including minor a light major surgical and dental care

 a.2 In patient secondary treatment and confinement

 a.3 Emergency care treatment

 B) To engage in preventive and promotive health activities such as:

 b.1 Pre- employment physical, dental and laboratory examination.

 b.2 Annual physical, dental and laboratory examination of the faculty member, staff and employees.

 b.3 Physical, dental and laboratory examination of all students.

 b.4 Annual medical examination of all food handlers and vendors within the University campus.

 b.5. Establishment of medical ancillary services which include laboratory, x-ray, pharmacy, ambulance and civic action services.

 b.6 Family planning, Pre-Natal, Post-Natal and well baby clinic.

 b.7. Immunization Program.

 b.8. Food, water and environmental sanitation which include insect and vermin control and waste disposal program.

  

 C) To develop advocacy for its rural and development program for the enhancement of health awareness of community through the following:

 c.1. Conduct or attend different outreach lectures, conferences, seminars on health related issues in coordination with the different health agencies of the government.

 c.2 Perform pioneering activities and research work pertaining to a competitive therapeutic option in the treatment of the diseases.

 c.3 Awareness on the importance of environmental conservation.

  

 D) To work cohesively with the University administration on how to expand the health benefits and privileges of students, faculty and employees and their dependents.

 Target clientele / Area Coverage: 

 The hospital intends to provide health service not only to the academic community of the University but also to the residents of Indang and nearby communities.

 Organizational Set Up: 

 The health services shall be headed by the Director of the Hospital. Under him are the head of Medical Department, Nursing Services Department, Administrative and Ancillary Department.

----- DOC | Institutional Development Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/institutional-development-office/ | 2020-01-30 -----
Institutional Development Office 

 The Institutional Development Office (IDO) supervises the following units:

 
 Quality Assurance Unit

 Policy Development Unit

 
 The IDO recommends, implements and evaluates policies, plans and programs that are related to institutional development and plans; monitors and evaluates the internal assessment system of the University; and monitors the implementation of the University's quality assurance programs.

----- DOC | Planning Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/planning-office/ | 2020-01-30 -----
Planning Office 

 The Planning Office (PO) supervises the following units:

 
 Institutional Planning Unit

 Physical Planning Unit

 Project Management Unit

 
 The PO spearheads the preparation of the various plans of the University (development, strategic, operational, physical, and investment plans); monitors and evaluates the development plans and projects of the University; conducts the initial performance assessment of the various offices of the University based on the submitted Office Performance Commitment and Review Form; and conducts university performance planning and review conference annually.

  

 
  

 2024 Infrastructure Report 

 
 

 2023 Infrastructure Report 

 
 

  

 2022 Infrastructure Report 

 
 

  

 2021 Infrastructure Report

----- DOC | University Calendar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/university-calendar/ | 2020-01-29 -----
First Semester AY 2025-2026 

 

  

 
 
 
 Second Semester AY 2025-2026 

  

 

 
 
 
 MIDYEAR 2026 

 

 
 UNIVERSITY CALENDAR AY 2024-2025 

 This page was last edited on 02 September 2025.

----- DOC | Trece Martires City Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/trece-martires-city-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered/Offerings 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English 

 
 BS Business Management major in Marketing 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Office Administration 

 
 BS Psychology 

 
 
 VISIT CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY TRECE MARTIRES CITY CAMPUS WEBSITE

----- DOC | Tanza Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/tanza-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered/Offerings 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 BS Tourism Management 

 
 BS Psychology

----- DOC | Silang Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/silang-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered/Offerings 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 


 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 


 
 BS Business Administration 


 
 BS Computer Science 


 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 


 
 BS Information Technology 


 
 BS Psychology 


 
 BS Tourism Management 


 
 Laboratory / Science High School 


 
 
 VISIT CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY SILANG CAMPUS WEBSITE 

  


  


 This page was last edited on 29 November 2023.

----- DOC | CCAT (Rosario) Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/rosario-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered/Offerings 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Technical Vocational Teacher Education ( formerly Bachelor of Technical Teacher Education ) 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Computer Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Electrical Engineering 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Industrial Education 

 
 BS Industrial Technology ( formerly Bachelor of Industrial Technology ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 Teacher Certificate Program 

 
 Laboratory / Science High School 

 
 
 Visit Cavite State University Rosario Campus Website

----- DOC | Naic Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/naic-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered/Offerings 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Fisheries 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 Basic Seaman Training Course 

 
 Teacher Certificate Program 

 
 Laboratory / Science High School 

 
 
 Visit Cavite State University Naic Campus Website

----- DOC | Imus Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/imus-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered 

 
 
 
 AB Journalism 


 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 


 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 


 
 BS Business Management 


 
 BS Computer Science 


 
 BS Entrepreneurship 


 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 


 
 BS Information Technology 


 
 BS Office Administration 


 
 BS Psychology 


 
 Bachelor Of Early Childhood Education 


 
 Teacher Certificate Program 


 
 
 Visit Cavite State University Imus Campus Website

----- DOC | General Trias City Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/general-trias-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 BS Office Administration 

 
 BS Psychology 

 
 BS Tourism Management

----- DOC | Cavite City Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cavite-city-campus/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Courses Offered 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in English 

 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Mathematics 

 
 BS Business Administration 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 Teacher Certificate Program

----- DOC | Carmona Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/carmona/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Campus Administrators 

 

 

 Courses Offered 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Computer Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 

 
 BS Industrial Technology ( formerly Bachelor of Industrial Technology ) 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 
 

 Contact Us

 

 

 
 Facebook page:   https://www.facebook. com/CvSUCarmona/ 

 Website using Wix  https://cvsucarmonacampus. wixsite.com/cvsucarmona 

 Email:  cvsucarmona@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | Bacoor Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/bacoor/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Goals of the CvSU Bacoor City Campus 

 In support to the Vision and Mission of the University, CvSU – Bacoor City Campus shall:

 
 
 
 1. provide quality and affordable education which promotes intellectual growth, academic excellence and moral integrity;
2. prepare students to meet the demands of the global market and respond to the society's needs;
3. develop innovative and scholarly researchers who have the ability to create new understanding in quest for quality research through inquiry, analysis and problem solving; and
4. produce globally competitive graduates with full competence in their fields of study. 


 
 
 Courses Offered 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 


 
 BS Business Management 


 
 BS Computer Science 


 
 BS Criminology 


 
 BS Hospitality Management ( formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management ) 


 
 BS Information Technology 


 
 BS Psychology 


 
 

 Virtual Tour 

 [embedyt] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzDx6Q9KUOc[/embedyt]

  

 The History 

 [embedyt] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OoPI-7mHO9s[/embedyt]

  

 Campus Officials 

 [embedyt] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K64SyV0g1PU[/embedyt]

  

 Photos 

 Welcome to Cavite State University Bacoor City Campus 
 Academic Building 
 Main Building 
  

 Location : Soldiers Hills IV, Molino VI, Bacoor City, Cavite 

 Email : cvsubacoor@cvsu.edu.ph 

 Call : (046) 476-5029

----- DOC | Courses Offered | https://cvsu.edu.ph/course-offerings/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Graduate School and Open Learning College 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 PhD in Agriculture 

 
 PhD in Education 

 
 PhD in Management 

 
 Master in Business Administration 

 
 Master of Agriculture 

 
 Master of Arts in Education 

 
 Master of Engineering 

 
 Master of Management 

 
 Master of Professional Studies 

 
 MS Agriculture 

 
 MS Biology 

 
 MS Food Science 

 
 Master in Information Technology 

 
 
 

 Undergraduate Programs   

 College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Agricultural Entrepreneurship 

 
 BS Agriculture 

 
 BS Environmental Science 

 
 BS Food Technology 

 
 
 

 College of Arts and Sciences

 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 BA English Language Studies (formerly BA English) 

 
 BA Journalism (formerly BA Mass Communication) 

 
 BA Political Science 

 
 BS Applied Mathematics 

 
 BS Biology 

 
 BS Psychology 

 
 BS Social Work 

 
 
 

 College of Criminal Justice 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 BS Criminology 

 
 BS Industrial Security Management 

 
 
 

 College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 BS Accountancy 

 
 BS Business Management 

 
 BS Development Management 

 
 BS Economics 

 
 BS International Studies 

 
 BS Office Administration 

 
 
 

 College of Education 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 

 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Special Needs Education 

 
 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education 

 
 BS Hospitality Management (formerly BS Hotel and Restaurant Management) 

 
 BS Tourism Management 

 
 Teacher Certificate Program 

 
 Science High School 

 
 Elementary Education 

 
 Pre-Elementary Education 

 
 
 

 College of Engineering and Information Technology

 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 BS Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering (formerly BS Agricultural Engineering) 

 
 BS Architecture 

 
 BS Civil Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Electrical Engineering 

 
 BS Electronics Engineering (formerly BS Electronics & Communications Engineering) 

 
 BS Industrial Engineering 

 
 BS Industrial Technology (formerly Bachelor of Industrial Technology) 

Major in:

 

 Automotive Technology

 Electrical Technology

 Electronics Technology

 

 
 BS Information Technology 

 
 
 

 College of Nursing 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 BS Medical Technology 

 
 BS Midwifery 

 
 BS Nursing 

 
 Diploma in Midwifery 

 
 
 

 College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation

 

 
 
 
 
 Programs 

 
 
 
 Bachelor of Physical Education 

 
 Bachelor of Exercise and Sports Sciences (formerly Bachelor in Sports and

Recreational Management)

 

 
 
 

 College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 

 
 
 
 
 Program 

 
 
 
 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine

----- DOC | Office of Business Affairs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/office-of-business-affairs/ | 2020-01-28 -----
The Office of Business Affairs of Cavite State University is an aggressive arm of the University in resource generation and an entrepreneurship model of SUCs in the country. It aims to vigorously pursue a sustainable resource generation program using the University's resources while developing the capabilities of its staff, faculty, students and other partners. Under this Office are the production projects, income generating projects, and business ventures of the University.

 These are some of the units held by the Office of Business Affairs:

  

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 University Dormitory

 
 
 

 

 

 The University Dormitories are composed of 3 buildings: two (2) for the lady's dormitory and one (1) for men's dormitory. The lady's dormitories are composed of 2 four-storey building located…

 
 

 View More 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 International House

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 View More

----- DOC | Public Affairs and Communications Office | https://cvsu.edu.ph/public-affairs-and-communications-office/ | 2020-01-09 -----
By virtue of BOR Resolution No. 8, s. 2019, the Office of the University President was restructured, hence, transferring the Public Information and Community Relations Office from the Office of the Vice President for External and Business Affairs to the Office of the University President and renaming it as Public Affairs and Communications Office.

 It shall have the following functions:

 
 
 
 ensure the existence of updated information profile of the University;

 keep updated records of University activities for dissemination to the general public;

 develop and produce information materials for promotion and advertisement;

 collect, consolidate, and reproduce the annual report of the University; and

 establish linkage with local, national, and international print and broadcast media.

 

 
 Contact Us 

             E-mail: paco@cvsu.edu.ph 
             Contact Number: 09163410750

----- DOC | Contact Us | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-contact-us/ | 2019-10-03 -----
For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:

 Landline: (046) 862- 0850

 Mobile Phone: +639989372020 / +639959715511

 E-mail: ovpre.cvsu@gmail.com 

 Facebook: Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension

@CvSUovpre

----- DOC | R & E Updates | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-updates/ | 2019-10-03 -----
Aside from the CvSU Research Journal, the Knowledge Management Center releases two other publications that are used to inform the stakeholders of the research and extension-related activities of the University.             

 REconnections is an English-language newsletter that is released monthly and covers both research and extension news while Ugnayan is a Filipino-language newsletter that is released every quarter and is considered as the official publication of the Extension Services.

 Reconnections 

 
 
 
 
 Volume Date SDG 

 
 
 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 6 JUNE, 2026 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 5 MAY, 2026 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 4 APRIL, 2026 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 3 MARCH, 2026 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 2 FEBRUARY, 2026 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 9 No. 1 JANUARY, 2026 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 12 DECEMBER, 2025 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 11 NOVEMBER, 2025 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 10 OCTOBER, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 9 SEPTEMBER, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 8 AUGUST, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 7 JULY, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 6 JUNE, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 5 MAY, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 4 APRIL, 2025 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 3 MARCH, 2025 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 2 FEBRUARY, 2025 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 8 No. 1 JANUARY, 2025 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 12 DECEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 11 NOVEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 10 OCTOBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 9 SEPTEMBER, 2024 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 8 AUGUST, 2024 

  

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 7 JULY, 2024 

  

  

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 6 JUNE, 2024         

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 5 MAY, 2024        

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 4 APRIL, 2024            

 

 
 
 

  

 
 
 
 2024 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2024 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 2 
 FEBRUARY, 2024 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 7 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2024 

 
 Archive 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 12 
 DECEMBER, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 11 
 NOVEMBER, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 10 
 OCTOBER, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 9 
 SEPTEMBER, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 8 
 AUGUST, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 7 
 JULY, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 6 
 JUNE, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 5 
 MAY, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 4 
 APRIL, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2023 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 2 
 FEBRUARY, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 6 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2023 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 12 
 DECEMBER, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 11 
 NOVEMBER, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 10

 
 OCTOBER, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 9

 
 SEPTEMBER, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 8

 
 AUGUST, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 7

 
 JULY, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 6

 
 JUNE, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 5

 
 MAY, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 4 
 APRIL, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 2

 
 FEBRUARY, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 5 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2022 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 12 
 DECEMBER, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 11

 
 NOVEMBER, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 10

 
 OCTOBER, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 9

 
 SEPTEMBER, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 8 
 AUGUST, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 7 
 JULY, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 6

 
 JUNE, 2021 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 5

 
 MAY, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 4

 
 APRIL, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2021 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 2

 
 FEBRUARY, 2021 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 4 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2021 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 12

 
 DECEMBER, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 11

 
 NOVEMBER, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 10

 
 OCTOBER, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 9 
 SEPTEMBER, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 8

 
 AUGUST, 2020 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 7

 
 JULY, 2020 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 6

 
 JUNE, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 5 
 MAY, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 4

 
 APRIL, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 3

 
  MARCH, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 2 
 FEBRUARY, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 3 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2020 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 12 
 DECEMBER, 2019 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 11 
 NOVEMBER, 2019 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 10

 
 OCTOBER, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 9

 
 SEPTEMBER, 2019 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 8

 
  AUGUST, 2019 

 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 7 
 JULY, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 6 
 JUNE, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 5 
 MAY 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 4 
 APRIL, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 2 
 FEBRUARY, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 2 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2019 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 12 
 DECEMBER, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 11 
 NOVEMBER, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 10 
 OCTOBER, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 9 
 SEPTEMBER, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 8 
 AUGUST, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 7 
 JULY, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 6 
 JUNE, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 5 
 MAY, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 4 
 APRIL, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 3 
 MARCH, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 2 
 FEBRUARY, 2018 

 
 Newsletter Vol. 1 No. 1 
 JANUARY, 2018 

 
 
 UGNAYAN 

 
 
 
 Enero-Marso, 2024 
 TOMO XXII BILANG 1 

 
 Oktubre-Disyembre, 2023 
 TOMO XXI BILANG 4 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2023 
 TOMO XXI BILANG 3 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2023 
 TOMO XXI BILANG 2 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2023

 
 TOMO XXI BILANG 1 

 
 Oktubre-Disyembre, 2022

 
 TOMO XX BILANG 4 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2022

 
 TOMO XX BILANG 3 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2022

 
 TOMO XX BILANG 2 

 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2022

 
 TOMO XX BILANG 1 

 

 
 Oktubre-Disyembre, 2021

 
 TOMO XIX BILANG 4 

 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2021

 
 TOMO XIX BILANG 3 

 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2021 
 TOMO XIX BILANG 2 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2021 
 TOMO XVIX BILANG 1 

 
 Oktuber-Disyembre, 2020

 
 TOMO XVIII BILANG 4 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2020 
 TOMO XVIII BILANG 3 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2020 
 TOMO XVIII BILANG 2 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2020 
 TOMO XVIII BILANG 1 

 

 
 Oktubre-Disyembre, 2019 
 TOMO XVII BILANG 4 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2019 
 TOMO XVII BILANG 3 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2019 
 TOMO XVII BILANG 2 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2019 
 TOMO XVII BILANG 1 

 
 Oktubre-Disyembre, 2018 
 TOMO XVI BILANG 4 

 
 Hulyo-Setyembre, 2018 
 TOMO XVI BILANG 3 

 
 Abril-Hunyo, 2018 
 TOMO XVI BILANG 2 

 
 Enero-Marso, 2018 
 TOMO XVI BILANG 1 

 
 
 Contact details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the Knowledge Management Center's Office or send as an e-mail at renewsletter@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | Opportunities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-opportunities/ | 2019-10-03 -----
CvSU Research Grant 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) supports the research and development activities of faculty members through the CvSU Research Grant. The grant is intended to bolster the research capacity through procuring/upgrading equipment, supplies (e.g. glassware, chemicals, media, among others), software and other requirements which in the long run will build the current faculty strengths and establish the reputation of the laboratories/research centers. Researches that are in line with the institutional, regional, national and global thrusts are encouraged. These include creative works or scientific queries that are curiosity-driven (involving basic research), problem-based (applied research) or investigations along the interface of traditional disciplines. Proposals with innovative and creative approaches in addressing the research problem/subject under study and of multidisciplinary and collaborative nature shall be given high priority. Overall, this aims to support scholarly pursuits, nurture creativity and innovation and promote a research culture in the University. Eventually, it is envisioned that through the CvSU Research Grant, the University's research performance shall soar through increased publication and patent certification. The knowledge created and the technology developed shall eventually be cascaded to the community, consistent with the aspirations of becoming a global University in the near future.

 CvSU Faculty and Student Research Capability Enhancement Fund 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) grants funding for student researches such as undergraduate thesis, design projects, case studies and other researches of a similar nature that are parts of a faculty member's approved research project. As with the CvSU Research Grant, it is intended to strengthen the research capability of the faculty members and both local and international students. Similarly, these researches should be in line with the institutional, regional, national and global thrusts and must be approved by the thesis advisory committee of the respective college/campus.

  Publication Incentive 

 Publication incentives, financial support and recognition awards shall be granted to the faculty researchers and staff whose papers were published in peer-reviewed journals provided that:

 
 the faculty researchers and staff have plantilla positions in the University or employed as contractual.

 the papers were published in institutional, regional, national or international refereed journal recognized by the Commission on Higher Education and /or Scopus or ISI (Web of Science hausarbeit schreiben lassen ). This web helps people with researches and indexed journals. In case, the journal is not yet indexed, the reputation of the publisher (i.e. quality of journal, publishing university, impact factor etc.) shall be used as indicator of quality. Papers published in proceedings and journals of questionable integrity are excluded in the giving of incentives.

 the papers must be aligned with the thrusts and priorities of the University, namely Agri-fisheries and Food Security; Biodiversity and Environmental Conservation; Smart Engineering, ICT and Industrial Competitiveness; Societal Development and Equality and Public Health and Welfare.

 the faculty researchers and staff have not received any cash incentive from other institution for publishing their researches.

 the research is either internally/externally funded or thesis/dissertation/research requirement of faculty or staff. In case of thesis/dissertation and research paper requirement in a course, the Cavite State University should be listed as an affiliation of the author.

----- DOC | National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-ncrdec/ | 2019-10-03 -----
Vision and Mission 
 Divisions 
 Organizational Structure 
 On-going Projects 
 Contact Details 


 
 
  

 ABOUT US

 Cavite State University (CvSU) has risen to the forefront of coffee research and development in the Philippines. This leadership position is rooted in its successful management of the nation's inaugural integrated research program for coffee, a program mandated by the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act of 1997. This pioneering effort laid the groundwork for CvSU's continued prominence in the sector.  

 A significant milestone in CvSU's journey was the establishment of the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) in 2005. The creation of NCRDEC, formalized through CvSU Board Resolution Number 77 Series of 2004, was a strategic move to directly address the requirements of coffee industry stakeholders and to actively promote the expansion of the Philippine coffee sector.  

 Since its inception, NCRDEC has played a crucial role in advancing the coffee industry through various initiatives. The Center actively conducts research to improve coffee cultivation and quality, offers essential training and technical support to farmers and other stakeholders, and produces high-quality coffee planting materials to enhance productivity. 

 The impact of NCRDEC's work has been substantial, reaching thousands of individuals involved in the coffee value chain. Through its ongoing dedication to research, extension, and the provision of quality resources, NCRDEC continues to work towards the ambitious goal of restoring the Philippines to a prominent position in the international coffee market. 

  

 VISION

 “To be locally and internationally known for coffee research, development and extension programs.” 

  

 MISSION

 “To strengthen research and development activities and enhance the extension delivery system that will lead to increased productivity, sustainability, and global competitiveness of Philippine coffee.” 

  

 OUR SLOGAN

 “…bringing the Philippine coffee back to the world market.” 

  

 OUR COMMITMENT

 We are dedicated: To continuously support and uplift the welfare of our coffee farmers; To ensure quality of our local coffee; To provide leadership in coffee research and processing technology, and; To leave a legacy for the future of our country. 

  

 NCRDEC Divisions

 The NCRDEC is divided into its three (3) functions: 

 

  

  

 Organizational Structure

 

  

  

 COMPLETED & ONGOING RDE PROGRAMS

 [ LINK OF ONGOING RDE PROJECTS ] 

 [ LINK OF COMPLETED RDE PROJECTS ] 

  

  

 OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

  

  

 MAJOR EVENTS & ACTIVITIES

 [ LINK OF MAJOR EVENTS & ACTIVITIES ] 

  

 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:

 Landline: (046) 890-1420
 E-mail : ncrdec@cvsu.edu.ph 
 Facebook Page: facebook.com/ncrdecphilippines

----- DOC | Knowledge Management Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-knowledge-management-center/ | 2019-10-03 -----
The Knowledge Management Center (KMC) is a new unit under the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension. It was created by virtue of Board Resolution No. 58, s. 2017 approved on September 15, 2017, which includes the revision of the organizational structure of Research and Extension.

 The Knowledge Management Center shall coordinate with other units in promoting research and extension culture in the University. It is composed of two divisions:

 
 Publication and Communication Division. The main function of the Publication and Communication Division is to provide avenues for research and technology information dissemination. It is in-charge of the publication of CvSU Research Journal, Philippine Coffee Journal, Reconnections and Ugnayan newslettesr, occasional papers, techno-guides, and the like.

 Intellectual Property Management Division. The Intellectual Property Management Division is the arm of the University in protecting the interests of inventors and creators while ensuring that the community and the society benefit from the fair and full dissemination of knowledge and innovation. This office is managed by the Head, and supported by Managers of Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) and Knowledge and Technology Transfer Office (KTTO).

 
 The following are samples of the Brochures created by ITSO:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:
 Landline : (046) 415-0212
 E-mail : kmc.cvsu@cvsu.edu.ph

----- DOC | Extension Services | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-extension-services/ | 2019-10-03 -----
Vision

 and Mission 
 Goals and Objectives 
 Organizational Structure 
 Accomplishments 
 On-going projecs 
 Contact Details 

 
 
 Mandate

 University Mandate on Extension Services – Extension Services is an outreach unit of Cavite State University. As mandated, the University shall “provide advanced instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas.” (Republic Act No. 8468, converting the Don Severino Agricultural College into University Status, to be called Cavite State University). 

 Republic Act 8435, or the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act of 1997 (AFMA) under section 86 stated that: “It is hereby declared the policy of the state to promote science and technology, as essential for national development and progress. The State shall give priority to the utilization of research results through formal and non-formal education, extension and training services.” 

  

 Historical Background

 For decades, the University has been involved in community outreach and extension activities. When this was converted into Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC) in 1964, extension became one of the functions of this institution, in addition to instruction and research. DSAC started with two major units, the Secondary Department and the College Department. The latter conducted extension services in the form of seminars on improved farm practices and certified seeds and veterinary services to the animals of the service area. In addition, the College maintained a one-and-a-half hectare nursery for the propagation of and multiplication of important plants for on-campus and for farmers' use. The Swine Project which was used for instruction purposes also served as a source of foundation stock for farmers. Boar services were made available to small hog raisers for the improvement of their stock (DSAC Annual Report, SY 1968-69). 

 Since then, the milestones of extension services were recorded in the Annual Reports of this educational institution. 

  

 Vision

 Alleviating the standard of living of the economically and socially disadvantaged sectors of society 

  

 Mission

 To engage in the improvement of the quality of life of farmers/fisherfolks, women, out-of-school youths, local government employees, and other clients through the conduct of relevant education and training; farm and business advisory services; demonstration services; and information, communication, and technology services. 

  

 Goal

 The Extension Services of Cavite State University (CvSU) shall be geared towards the improvement of the lives of the community especially those that belong to economically and socially disadvantaged sectors through the conduct of relevant education and training; farm and business advisory activities; demonstration projects; and information, communication, and technology services. 

  

 Objectives

  

 
 Conceptualize, coordinate, and conduct relevant, efficient, gender-responsive, and sustainable interdisciplinary extension programs, projects, and activities; 

 Establish linkages with government and private agencies engaged in extension and community development; 

 Coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the extension programs, projects, and activities of various colleges, campuses, and other extension implementing units of the University; 

 Promote community and social enterprises; and 

 Coordinate with the Office of Business Affairs and Marketing in promoting agricultural and other potential income-generated projects. 

 
   

  

 2026 Organizational Structure

 

  

 Priority Areas/Agenda

 

 CvSU Research, Innovation, and Extension Priority Areas/Agenda 

  

 Banner Program

 

 Conceptual framework of CvSU Poverty Alleviation Program through 

 UGNAYAN 2.0 Approach 

  

 

 Flowchart of program implementation 

  

 Accomplishments

  

 A. Active Partnership 

 Number of active partnerships with LGUs, industries, NGOs, NGAs, SMEs, and other stakeholders as a result of extension activities 

 

  

 
 
 
 Number of active partnerships with LGUs, industries, NGOs, NGAs, SMEs, and other stakeholders as a result of extension activities 
 Target 
 Accomplishment 

 
 2021 
 30 
 33 

 
 2022 
 30 
 30 

 
 2023 
 33 
 37 

 
 2024 
 33 
 35 

 
 2025 
 34 
 35 

 
 
  

 B. Approved Programs/Projects 

 Number of extension programs organized and supported consistent with the SUC's mandated and priority programs 

 

  

 
 
 
 Number of extension programs organized and supported consistent with the SUC's mandated and priority programs 
 Target 
 Accomplishment 

 
 2021 
 20 
 27 

 
 2022 
 21 
 23 

 
 2023 
 33 
 34 

 
 2024 
 27 
 30 

 
 2025 
 28 
 32 

 
 
  

 C. Trainees Weighted by the Length of Training 

 Number of trainees weighted by the length of training 

 

  

 
 
 
 Number of trainees weighted by the length of training 
 Target 
 Accomplishment 

 
 2021 
 12,050.00 
 12,093.00 

 
 2022 
 12,100.00 
 12,127.50 

 
 2023 
 12,100.00 
 12,269.25 

 
 2024 
 12,130.00 
 12,283.25 

 
 2025 
 12,270.00 
 12,407.00 

 
 
 

  

 D. Satisfaction Rating 

 Percentage of beneficiaries who rate the training course/s and advisory services as satisfactory or higher in terms of quality and relevance 

 

  

 
 
 
 Percentage of beneficiaries who rate the training course/s and advisory services as satisfactory or higher in terms of quality and relevance 
 Target 
 Accomplishment 

 
 2021 
 98.00 
 99.57 

 
 2022 
 98.00 
 99.78 

 
 2023 
 99.52 
 99.82 

 
 2024 
 99.52 
 99.99 

 
 2025 
 99.50 
 100.00 

 
 
  

 Designated Faculty Extensionist 

 
 Sherrlyn M. Rasdas 

 Dickson N. Domero 

 Aries M. Gelera (to be confirmed) 

 
  

 On-going Programs/Projects 

  

 
 
 
 PROGRAMS/PROJECTS 
 DURATION 

 
 
 
 1. 
 Bridging Academe with the Community through Operative and Outcomes-Based Research and Extension (BACOORex) 
 2017 – 2027 

 
 2. 
 Income and Resource Improvement towards a Sustainable Enterprise (IRISE) 
 March 25, 2025- September 25, 2027 

 
 3. 
 UPLIFT Tanzeños (sUstaining and empowering through Literacy Initiatives For The Tanzeños) 
 December 2023 – December 2026 

 
 4. 
 Project 3C's : Changing, Challenging Communities with Education, Power and Empowerment 
 February 1, 2024 – January 31, 2026 

 
 5. 
 CvSU Carmona's Empowerment through Sustainable Services (CvSUCCESS) 
 May 2024 – May 2027 

 
 6. 
 Improving and revitalizing the Opportunities for Kaong Farmers towards a Better Quality of Life (Project IROK) 
 May 2, 2024 – April 30, 2026  

 Extended until December 2026 

 
 7. 
 Pinagtibay na Halamanan at Puguan sa Hayskul (Pinahusay) Project 
 January 20,2025 – January 19, 2026 

 
 8. 
 Increasing Impact of Coconut/Makapuno Technology 
 January 1, 2025 – December 31, 2026 

 
 9. 
 BIOCAMP (Bioresearch Initiative for Outreach and Collaborative Academic Mentorship Program) 
 January 1, 2025-December 31, 2026 

 
 10. 
 Strengthening Agro urban Communities Through Opportunities in Beekeeping (SACTO Bee) 
 November 4, 2024 – November 3, 2027 

 
 11. 
 Capability Enhancement for Research Responsive Public Elementary School Teachers (GABAY SALIKSIK) 
 December 17, 2024 – December 16, 2026 

 
 12. 
 Seaside Success: Advancing Hospitality and Business Management Spotlighting Food Preparation in Brgy. Labac, Naic, Cavite 
 January 1, 2025 – December 31, 2027 

 
 13. 
 S&T Based Community-Based Farm (STCBF) on Harnessing the Synergy of Vegetable Production and Stingless Beekeeping (VegeBee) 
 October 1, 2024 – September 30, 2026 

 
 14. 
 S&T Based Community-Based Farm (STCBF) on Sustainable Cacao Production through Improvement Management Practices in Alfonso, Cavite 
 June 01, 2025 – May 31, 2027 

 
 15. 
 Pamayanan, Pamahalaan, Pamantasan: Sandigan ng Matatag na Bayan (Adopt a Community Project) 
 May 30,2025 – June 30, 2028 

 
 16. 
 Project SECURE – Strengthening Enhanced Community Understanding and Responsibility for Effective CCTV Implementation in Selected Barangays of Indang, Cavite  
 May 2025 – April 2028 

 
 17. 
 DRIVE (Driving Readiness and Instructional Vehicle Education)  
 September 1, 2025 – September 29, 2027 

 
 18. 
 Project DIWATA: Developing Innovative Ways for Achieving Transformation and Advancements  
 September 1, 2025 – September 29, 2027 

 
 19. 
 TECHNO: Technology Enhanced Creativity Harnessing New Opportunities 
 October 1, 2025 – October 28, 2027 

 
 20. 
 L.A.Y.A. K.A.M.I Project: Learn, Assist, Yearn and Act – Knowledge, Advocacy, Management and Inclusivity 
 March 2025 – March 2027 

 
 21. 
 Promote Education And Community Engagement (PEACE) Extension Project 
 March 2025 – December 2027 

 
 22. 
 iREAD: Reading with Excellence achievement and Development 
 June 30, 2025 – July 29, 2027 

 
 23. 
 C-CCAT: Connecting Community through Collaborative Action and Teamwork-Empowering and Upskilling Workforce 
 February 2025 – January 2028 

 
 24. 
 Project BUENA MA-KNOWS: Business Enhancement Approaches through effective Management, Knowledge-enterprise Outcomes and Winning Strategies- A Business Administration Extension Activity 
 April 2025 – May 2027 

 
 25. 
 Kabuhayang Kaagapay sa Kaunlaran (KKK) 
 May 2025 – April 2028 

 
 26. 
 CvSU-CCC Project HOPE (Harnessing Opportunities for Progressive Education 
 August 29, 2025 – August 28, 2027 

 
 27. 
 BRIDGE: Building Resilience through Innovation and Development toward Grassroots Empowerment  
 September 30, 2025 – September 30, 2028 

 
 28. 
 Go Gulay! Cultivating Community Food Security and Urban Sustainability 
 September 30, 2025 – September 29, 2027 

 
 29. 
 TechBridge: Empowering Communities with IT Skills and Innovative Tools for Professional and Community Advancement  
 June 23, 2025 – July 22, 2027 

 
 30. 
 Fishcore-Driven, Integrated, Sustainable and Holistic Extension Support (FISHES) Project 
 October 20, 2025 – December 20, 2030 

 
 31. 
 Proyekto para sa Angkop at Wastong Initiatibo para sa Kapakanan ng PAWIKAN  
 October 20, 2025 – December 20, 2030 

 
 32. 
 MagDyaryo 2.0 
 November 10, 2025 – December 10, 2027 

 
 
   

 Active Partnership   

   

 
 
 
 PARTNER AGENCY/IES 
 NATURE OF PARTNERSHIP 
 PROGRAM/PROJECT TITLE 

 
 
 
 1 
 Local Government of Cavite City San Roque Parish Church Fisherfolk Residents at Brgy 61-A Talong, Cavite City 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Community Outreach and Research Development – Production of Flavored Dried Fish for Fisherfolks Community 

 
 2 
 Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development 
 Externally Funded Project 
 Strengthening the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management (IPTBM) in Southern Tagalog 

 
 3 
 Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development 
 Externally Funded Project 
 Strengthening the Agribusiness Hub in Southern Tagalog 

 
 4 
 Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development 
 Externally Funded Project 
 Strengthening the Agri-Aqua Technology Business Incubator (ATBI) in Southern Tagalog 

 
 5 
 Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development 
 Externally Funded Project 
 Strengthening the Knowledge Management Hub in Southern Tagalog 

 
 6 
 LGU Indang 
 Internally Funded Project 
 CONCARES 

 
 7 
 LGU Tanza 
 Internally Funded Project 
 UpLIFT Tanzeño 

 
 8 
 Department of Education-Alternative Learning Center 
 Internally Funded Project 
 UpLIFT Tanzeño 

 
 9 
 DOST-PCAARRD 
 Externally Funded Project 
 Enhancing the Coffee Food Value Chain through Smart Technologies and Partnerships towards Food Resiliency in Region IV A&B (CALABARZON & MIMAROPA) – Phase II 

 
 10 
 City Government of Carmona 
 Internally Funded Project 
 CvSU Carmona's Community Empowerment through Sustainable Services 

 
 11 
 St. Catherine Family Helper Project Inc. 
 Technology transfer 
 Adoptor 

 
 12 
 DOST-PCAARRD 
 Externally Funded Project 
 S&T Based Community-Based Farm (STCBF) on Harnessing the Synergy of Vegetable Production and Stingless Beekeeping (VegeBee) 

 
 13 
 Philippine Coconut Authority Region 4 
 Technical cooperation and technology transfer 
 NA 

 
 14 
 Association of Daine Lady Farmers Association, Inc. 
 Technical cooperation and technology transfer 
 Increasing Impact of Coconut/Makapuno Technology 

 
 15 
 Daine 1 and 2 Farmers Association 
 Technical cooperation and technology transfer 
 Increasing Impact of Coconut/Makapuno Technology 

 
 16 
 Farmers of Daine and OFW Families Agriculture Cooperative 
 Technical cooperation and technology transfer 
 Increasing Impact of Coconut/Makapuno Technology 

 
 17 
 LGU Indang 
 Other support services 
 NA 

 
 18 
 DOST-PCAARRD 
 Externally Funded Project 
 S&T Based Community-Based Farm (STCBF) on Sustainable Cacao Production through Improvement Management Practices in Alfonso, Cavite 

 
 19 
 Mambog, Bacoor City, Cavite 
 Internally Funded 
 BACOORex 

 
 20 
 BJMP 
 Internally Funded 
 BACOORex 

 
 21 
 Molino II, Bacoor City, Cavite 
 Internally Funded 
 BACOORex 

 
 22 
 Eugenio Cabezas National Highschool 
 Internally Funded 
 Pinagtibay na Halamanan at Puguan sa Hayskul “Pinahusay Project” 

 
 23 
 Toclong First Multi-purpose Cooperative (T1MPC) 
 Internally Funded 
 IRISE 

 
 24 
 BJMP Trece Martire City Jail 
 Internally Funded Project 
 L.A.Y.A. K.A.M.I Project: Learn, Assist, Yearn and 

 Act- Knowledge, Advocacy, Management and Inclusivity 

 
 25 
 Commission on Human Rights (CHR) 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Promote Education AndCommunity Engagement (PEACE) 

 Extension Project 

 
 26 
 LGU Indang, Cavite 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Project IROK 

 
 27 
 City of Imus Anti-Drug Abuse, Rehabilitation Center (CIADAC) 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Kabuhayang Kaagapay sa Kaunlaran (KKK) 

 
 28 
 DepEd Als 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Techbridge: Empowering Communities with IT Skills and Innovative Tools for Professional and Community Advancement 

 
 29 
 Brgy. Labac, Naic, Cavite 
 Internally Funded Project 
 SEASIDE SUCCESS 

 
 30 
 DepEd District I – Naic, Cavite 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Gabay Saliksik 

 
 31 
 CBSUA 
 Internally Funded Project 
 SACTOBEE 

 
 32 
 DOST-PCAARRD 
 Externally Funded Project 
 RAISE Project 12 (Project 2) Phase 2 

 
 33 
 Municipal Agriculturist, Indang 
 Internally Funded Project 
 bee related seminars-training 

 
 34 
 Municipality of Indang 
 Internally Funded Project 
 Pamayanan, Pamahalaan, Pamantasan: Sandigan ng Matatag na Bayan (Adopt a Community Project) 

 
 35 
 Indang Central Elementary School 
 Internally Funded 
 Project 3C's: Changing, Challenging Communities through Education, Inclusiveness, and Empowerment 

 
 
  

 Lingap CvSU   

  

 

  

 Contact Information: 

  

 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:
 Landline : (046) 483-9250 local 1029 / (046) 482-2010 
 E-mail : extension@cvsu.edu.ph 
 Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/CvSUExtensionServices

----- DOC | Research Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-research-center/ | 2019-10-03 -----
Vision

 and Mission 
 Agenda 
 Organizational Structure 
 Unit Accomplishments 
 Webinar Series 
 Linkages/ Partnerships 
 On-going Projects 
 Contact Details 

 
 
  

 About the Research Center

 Research at the Cavite State University (CvSU) began with the conversion of Indang Rural High School into Don Severino Agricultural College in 1964. Since then, the Research Center (RC) has evolved to function as one of the trilogy roles of the University. To date, the University is the seat of the national research, development, and extension for coffee – a status bestowed by the Department of Agriculture Bureau of Agricultural Research. The Research Center exerted serious efforts towards streamlining the Research, Development, and Extension Program by establishing a strong and effective research program that aimed to generate innovative and viable technologies useful to farmers and other clientele. This is done with the goal of improving their standard of living. The University's research program focused on coffee research, development, and extension. However, to accommodate the ever-increasing need for RD&E activities brought about by the development of the University into a comprehensive one, these thrusts have become more elaborate through the “Faculty and Students Research Capability Enhancement Program” that has been approved by the University Board of Regents in 2004. The University has maintained ties and established collaborative projects with international and local agencies with emphasis on plantation crops, high-value fruits and vegetables, ornamentals, herbs and spices, and poultry and livestock among others. 

 The research of the University is anchored into specific thrusts otherwise known as thematic areas which set the direction for the researchers on which disciplines or commodities to prioritize. These thrusts have evolved from fourteen to seven as follows: Strengthening Leadership in Coffee R&D; Mainstreaming Kaong R&D towards Environmental Protection and Poverty Alleviation; Sustainable Agriculture and Fisheries; Environment and Natural Resources; Engineering and Technology Development; Health and Wellness; and Human and Societal Development. However, it was deemed appropriate to remove the first two thematic areas because these are commodity-focused. Presently, the research thematic areas are as follows: Agri- Fisheries and Food Security; Biodiversity and Environmental Conservation; Smart Engineering, Information and Communication Technology, and Industrial Competitiveness; Social Development and Equality; and Public Health and Welfare. 

 Goals

 Cavite State University shall be a research University equipped with modern facilities geared towards innovating knowledge and improving the lives of the community. 

 Objectives

 The University aims to develop innovative technologies in various disciplines and commodity thrusts, especially in agriculture. Specifically, it aims to: 

 
 generate technologies in various disciplines in the University with emphasis on its major thrusts; 

 disseminate research results; 

 establish strong external linkages through the formation of collaborative projects; 

 strengthen the capability of faculty, researchers, students, and other stakeholders

in performing research activities; and

 recognize outstanding achievements of researchers. 

 
 

 Agenda

 The University shall pursue research agenda which

are responsive to the specific needs of the community brought by present environmental and developmental challenges. Guided by the local and national development thrusts, the University research agenda shall be focused on but not limited to the following:

 
 Agri-Fisheries and Food Security. This thematic area emphasizes developing agriculture and food systems that are economically viable and sustainable to ensure food security as well as improve the quality of life of farmers and fisher folks. Research and extension activities on the following commodities shall be given priority: coffee, kaong, rice, corn, root crops, high-value crops (e.g. banana, pineapple, mango, cacao, and vegetables) poultry and livestock, fisheries and aquaculture, urban agriculture, and organic agriculture. 

 Biodiversity and Environmental Conservation. This thematic area is concerned with environmental stewardship and equitable allocation and sustainable use of natural resources with emphasis on environmental protection, biodiversity assessment, and monitoring, cleaner environment, climate change, risk reduction management, renewable energy and green technologies, natural resource management, and ecotourism. 

 Smart Engineering, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), and Industrial Competitiveness. The term smart engineering covers the methods, processes, systems, and tools for the cross-disciplinary, system-oriented development of innovative and interconnected products, services, and infrastructures in the field of engineering. Products and process models shall be developed where networking encompasses all stages of development, from interdisciplinary design to production processes and piloting, right the way through product usage and disposal. Smart engineering is about the integration of appropriate product planning, development, and management to ensure the rapid market-ready implementation of innovative products and services and industrial competitiveness through the digital development process. The convergence of the latest computer science and ICT developments in the areas of micro-devices, mobile communication, hardware infrastructures, Internet and software technologies, image recognition and processing, parallel computing, complex adaptive systems, and bioinformatics shall be given emphasis. A strong focus shall also be given to mathematics and statistics applications or writing services for instance services or apps such as industrial and biological modeling, biomedical, social, and theoretical statistics; computational mathematics, discrete pure mathematics and physics/engineering. 

 Social Development and Equality . This thematic area focuses on educational, criminological, and social sciences researches and development initiatives with emphasis on sustainable development, economic development, gender and development, community development, governance, poverty alleviation, social behavior, attitude and norms, capacity building, peace process and conflict resolution, disaster risk management and social transitions, pedagogy, special education, ICT and education, among others. This area aims to create inclusive growth and development, social harmony, and equal opportunities among the different social groups and to lessen economic divide, inequality, and marginalization in society. 

 Public Health and Welfare. This area deals with research on protecting and improving human health and welfare which includes research on diseases or conditions that may be transmitted to humans from humans or animals and vice versa as well as those connected with the environment as a whole. Disciplines that are also covered are those dealing with epidemiology, statistics, environment, behavior and sociology, economics, mental health, public policy, public safety, delivery of health services, occupational safety, and other related fields. 

 
 Organizational Structure

 

 Unit Accomplishment

 Laboratory Maintenance 

 Research Center acquired a number of laboratory equipment; 25 air-conditioning units were installed in the laboratories to maintain laboratory temperature, one fume hood, seven eyewash with shower, and five laboratory benches. The Center is still waiting for the GC-MS, Gel Documentation System, UV Vis Spectrophotometer, and Fat Extractor. 

 Aside from the equipment, the Research Center also prioritized infrastructure projects like the installation of an elevator and the finishing of the roof of the Interdisciplinary Research Building. 

 Likewise, to ensure optimal working conditions and conservation of the life span of the equipment Preventive Maintenance was done. Accredited service technicians were hired to do onsite calibration and preventive maintenance of the following: refrigerated centrifuge (Hanil mega 17 R), cell culture incubator (BIOBASE BJPX H6411) , bio-freezer -80 , laminar flow hood , shaker incubator , m edical refrigerator , freeze dryer (OPERON FDU-8612) , UV-VIS spectrophotometer , rotary evaporator (IKA RV10) , and pipettors (Sartorius, Nichiryo). 

 Paper Presented 

 

 Published 

 

 Webinar Series

 Capability Enhancement of Researchers

 Conducted Webinars 

 
 
 
 Title of Webinar 
 Date 
 Speaker 
 No. of Participant 

 
 Researching Literature Review: Why Should We Care? 
 June 29, 2020 
 Dr. Cabanda 

   
 345 

 
 Beyond Borders: Research Challenges for Filipino Scientists 
 July 18, 2020 
 Dr. Gicana 

   
 220 

 
 Writing Research Proposals: Selling your Sciences in the New Normal  
 July 21, 2020 
 Dr. Lando 

   
 182 

 
 Getting your Papers Published with facharbeit schreiben lassen 
 July 28, 2020 
 Dr. Talactac 

   
 239 

 
 Applying Research Ethics Principles, The Informed Consent Form and Process 
 September 23, 2020 
 Dr. Estacio 
 1651 

 
 Institutional Roles and Research Ethics 
 Dr. Dalmacio 

 
 Experiences on Ethics Review of Researches of ghostwriting agentur 
 September 24, 2020 
 Dr. Alvarez 
 1635 

 
 National Ethical Guidelines and National Regulation 
 Prof. Jimenez 

 
 
 Linkages/Partnerships 

 
 
 
 TITLE 
 RESEARCHER 
 DURATION 
 AMOUNT 
 FUNDING AGENCY 

 
 Egxiting: Egg Grading, Sexing, and Sorting using Image Processing and Artificial Neural Network 
 Prof. Sheryl Fenol 
 SEPT 1, 2019-AUGUST 31,2020 
 499,000 
 

 
 Development of Field-Test Kit for Detection of Methanol Contamination in Alcoholic Beverages 
 Dr. Hosea Matel 
 SEPT.2020-MARCH 2021 
 1,074,900 

   
 

 
 Technology Piloting of a Tissue Culture Growth Chamber for Mass Propagation of Coffee and Embryo-Cultured Growth Chamber for Mass Propagation of Coffee and Embryo-Cultured Makapuno (ECM) 
 Engr. Gerry M. Castillo 

 Engr. Al Eugene Torres 

 Engr. Ric Karl T. Flores 
 SEPT.2020-MARCH 2021 
 888,980.00 
 

 
 Commercialization of Specialty Coffee Food Products 
 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica 
 JAN.2019-DEC.2020 
 4,890,278.4 
 

 
 Upgrading of the Bio-Analytical Services Facility (BASF) of Cavite State University Towards ISO or Third-Party Accreditation 
 Dr. Agnes Alimboyouguen 
 OCT.2019-OCT.2020 
 5,000,000 
 

 
 Higher Education Cooperation Towards Transitional Education Open Resources (Hector) 
 Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo 
 OCT. 2019-SEPT.2021 
 5,200,000 
 

 
 Comparison on Different Enzyme Preparations for Production of Oligofructose and Inulin from Sugarcane Juice 
 Dr. Hosea Matel 
 2017-2021 
 9,167,784 
 

 
 Low-Cost Portable Molecular Diagnostic Platform for Rapid Detection of Poultry Infectious Pathogens (LMDP) 
 Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. dela Cruz 
 SEPT. 2018-AUGUST 
 7,006,412.52 
 

 
 Patent Mining Program for Selected AANR Commodities through Strengthened IP-TBM Offices 
 Dr. Teddy Tepora 
 JAN. 2021-DEC.2022 
 69,830,168.88 
 

 
 Commercialization of Specialty Coffee Food Products 
 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica 
 JAN.2019-DEC.2020 
 4,890,278.4 
 

 
 Molecular-Based Method of Determining the Authenticity of Coffee ( Coffea spp. ) sold in the Philippine Market 
 Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar 

 Angelbert D. Cortes 

 Jermaine Marie Ann O. Fabella 
 JAN 2020 – JUN. 2022 
 5,172,777.20 
 

 
 
 On-going Projects 

 
 
 
 No. 
 PROJECT 
 RESEARCHERS 
 DURATION 
 COLLEGE/CAMPUS/RDE UNIT 
 SOURCE OF FUND 
 AMOUNT 

 
 1 
 Properties of Activated Carbon from Sugar Palm (Arenga pinnata) Processing By-Products Prepared Under Different Activation Conditions 
 Sheryl Dinglasan , Dr. Lorenzo Lapitan 
 JUNE 2018- MAY 2021 
 SPRINT 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 2 
 Gampanin ng Kape sa Kulturang Kabitenyo at Wikang Filipino 
 Lady Aileen Orsal , Marilou Matilla ,Emeliza Cruz, Lisette Mendoza,Rosa Hernandez, Bernard Feranil,Kimmi Dane Jimenez, Raymon Carlo Orsal, Ruby Manaig, Raquel Agustin, Bettina Joyce Ilagan, Jennifer Hernandez, Agnes Francisco, Erica Hernandez, Catherine Mojica, Allan Robert Solis , Manny Romeroso, Jocelyn Legaspi 
 JUNE 2018- MAY 2020 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 3 
 Water Quality Assessment of Labac-Alemang River and Cañas River in Cavite Philippines through Aquatic Macroinvertibrates and Physico-Chemical Parameters 
 Evelyn O. Singson, Jo-Ann T. Ductucan 
 DEC. 2018-DEC.2020 
 CAFENR 
 CRG 
 199,790.00 

 
 4 
 Antibiotic Production from Actinomycetes Isolated from Soil and Leaf Litter 
 Yolanda A. Ilagan, Janelle Smantha Roco 
 JAN. 2019-DEC.2020 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 75,000.00 

 
 5 
 Antimicrobial, Antibiofim and Cytotoxic activities of Amorphophallus campanulatus (Pungapong) (3 study) 
 Yolanda A. Ilagan, Ruel Christian V. Layugan 
 JAN. 2019-DEC.2020 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 75,000.00 

 
 6 
 Project PETMALU: Providing Efficiencies, Techniques, and Methods for the Attainment of a Lean University 
 Willie C. Buclatin 
 JAN. 2019-DEC.2020 
 CEIT 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 7 
 Antibiotic Sensitivity Profile and Dominant Antibiotic Resistance Genes in Selected Avian Bacterial Pathogens from Commercial Poultry Farms in Upland Cavite 
 Ma. Cynthia R. dela Cruz 

 Nelson J.Montialto 

 Ma. Fatima I. Cruzada 

 Yves Roy M. Tibayan 
 JAN. 2019-DEC.2020 
 CVMBS 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 8 
 Development of a Micro-Scale Microcontroller-Based Kaong Syrup and Brown Sugar Making Machine 
 Marilyn M. Escobar 

 Marivic G. Dizon 

 Emeline Guevarra 
 JAN. 2019-DEC.2020 
 CEIT 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 9 
 Characterization and Performance of Students and Graduates of College of Education 
 Cecilia B. Banaag 
 JAN.2019-DEC. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 10 
 Development of a Low-cost Micro controller-based Smoking Machine for Tinapa Processing 
 Gee Jay C. Bartolome, Camilo A. Polinga , Vennus Florence N. Vicedo, John Michael A. Dharma Ruth Angeli L. Burton, Alvin A. Castro 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 ROSARIO 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 11 
 Morphological and Lexical Variation of Tagalog Nominal and Pronominal Systems in Cavite: Basis for the Development of an aggregate of Discrete Tagalog Nouns and Pronouns Spoken by Caviteños 
 Agnes C. Francisco Catherine R. Mojica 
 OCT. 2018-SEPT.2020 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 83,490.00 

 
 12 
 Documentation and Analysis of Completed Researches of Undergraduate Students of Business Management from 2012-2018 
 Gener T. Cueno , Sherrie Rhose M. Matel Princess M. Feliciano Tania Marie P. Melo Janice E. Paiton 
 JAN.2019-DEC.2019 
 CEMDS 
 CRG 
 32,013.00 

 
 13 
 Social Vulnerability Assessment of Coastal Barangays in Naic, Cavite 
 Leah C. Navarro Elsa D. Nueva, Paulo Cullado, Elvira V. Balleza, Catherine S. Diones Adiliza G. Nazareno Diosalyn T. Galang 
 JAN. 2020-DEC.2020 
 NAIC 
 CRG 
 122,700.00 

 
 14 
 Decision Support system on Faculty profiling using Fulltex search algorithm 
 Ms. Regene L. Hernandez Mr. Richard L. Hernandez Mr Nestro F. Bueno 
 JULY 2019-JUNE2021 
 CARMONA 
 CRG 
 80,700.00 

 
 15 
 iMApp: A Knowledge based Mobile application for introduction to computing using inference Engine 
 Mr. Richard L. Hernandez 
 JULY 2019-JUNE2021 
 CARMONA 
 CRG 
 89,550.00 

 
 16 
 Queuing Management System for Cavite State University 
 Prof. Marlon R. Perena 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2020 
 CEIT 
 CRG 
 161,000.00 

 
 17 
 Gender Characterization and Competency and competency appraisal of students and graduates of the college of education 
 Dr. Liza C. Costa 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 48,000.00 

 
 18 
 Compliance and predicaments encountered in the risk reduction and disasters preparedness program (RRDPP) of Selected Academic Institutions in 5th District of Cavite: A Basis for Revisiting Institutional RRDPP 
 Mr. Carlo Emil B. Manabo 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2020 
 CARMONA 
 CRG 
 160,095.00 

 
 19 
 Optimization Models for Coffee-Based Production system 
 Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, Al Eugene L. Torres, Sheryl D. Fenol 
 NOV.2019-OCT.2020 
 NCRDEC 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 20 
 Development of Ergonomically- Designed Laboratory- Scale Coffee Dryer and Huller 
 Engr. Gerry M. Castillo 
 NOV. 2019-OCT.2021 
 NCRDEC 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 21 
 NCRDEC Information system 
 Engr. Al Eugene L. Torres 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2021 
 NCRDEC 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 22 
 Internalization of Cavite State University Campuses 
 MA. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz , Luisita Am Marzan , Liane Vina G. Ocampo 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2020 
 IMUS 
 CRG 
 100,000.00 

 
 23 
 Serological Evaluation of the Antibody Titers of Veterinarians, Veterinary Students and Animal Against Rabies Virus in Cavite 
 Melbourne R. Talactac 
 DEC.2019-NOV. 2020 
 CVMBS 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 24 
 Molecular Survey of Zoonotic Soil Transmitted Helminths and Blood Parasites in Domestic Animals in Selected Municipalities in Cavite 
 Adrian Miki C. Macalanda 
 DEC.2019-NOV.2021 
 CVMBS 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 25 
 The Impact of Parental Internalization Role to the Families in Cavite 
 Armi Grace B. Desingano 
 JAN. 2020-DEC.2021 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 120,700.00 

 
 26 
 Development and Acceptability of Weather and Disaster Risk Awareness Information System in the City of Bacoor 
 Rocelle U. Camposagrado 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2021 
 BACOOR 
 CRG 
 199,950.00 

 
 27 
 Essential Competencies Evaluation of Hospitality Management Programs of CvSU- Imus Campus 
 Florabhel R. Tinte,Mary Leth C. Pascual , Rafael Curimao 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2020 
 IMUS 
 CRG 
 38,000.00 

 
 28 
 Dietary Behavior of School Children and Nutritional Awareness of their Parents: Basis for Developing a Nutrition Education Program for Selected 4ps Beneficiaries barangay Molino 2 
 Natividad R. Ferriol , Christian Mark G , Lorenzana , Ericson M. Mercado , Katherine T. Santos 
 NOV. 2019-OCT. 2021 
 BACOOR 
 CRG 
 152,000.00 

 
 29 
 Population Dynamics and Distribution of the Coffee Berry Borer 
 Dr. Teddy Tepora, Dr. Evelyn O Singson 
 JULY 2019-MAY 2022 
 RESEARCH 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 30 
 Development of Marketing Strategies for Aguinaldo blend coffee in Selected cities of Cavite 
 Ms. Janice Nealega, Menvyluz S. Macaladlad . Fe S. Dullavin,Ronan M. Cajigal 
 DEC. 2019-MAY 2021 
 BACOOR 
 CRG 
 163,960.00 

 
 31 
 Indang Ahuy: Personal Recounts of Indangeños on the Origin and Cultural Experiences on Native Delicacies in Indang , Cavite Towards the Development of a Cultural Preservation Program 
 Mr. Joether A. Francisco, Gil D. Ramos , Agnes C. Francisco , Paul V. Hilario, Armo Grace B. Desingaño 
 DEC. 2019 – NOV. 2021 
 CAS 
 CRG 
 111,000.00 

 
 32 
 Immunohistochemical Profiling of Estrogen Receptors in Reproductive Organs of Philippine Mallard Duck*anas platyrhaynchos L.) 
 Desiree C. Delmundo 
 DEC. 2019-NOV. 2020 
 CVMBS 
 CRG 
 75,000.00 

 
 33 
 Coastal Profiling and Environmental Assessment of Manila bay Areas in Cavite City 
 Emeriza Caparaz 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CAVITE CITY 
 CRG 
 120,000.00 

 
 34 
 Morphological, Histological, and Genetic diversity Analysis of Itik Pinas and Philippine Native Duck ( Anas pllatyrhychis L.) Breeds 
 Mariedel L. Autriz, Cristina F. Olo , Ma. Cecille N. Basa 
 DEC. 2019-NOV. 2020 
 CAFENR 
 CRG 
 166,000.00 

 
 35 
 Microscale Assessment of Agricultural of Agricultural land abandonment: the Case of the municipality indang ,Cavite 
 Marlon A. Mojica, Laarni B. Basa, Junser P. Magpantay, Robert T. Ingal 
 DEC. 2019-NOV. 2020 
 CEMDS 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 36 
 Mangrove and Seagrass Rehabilitation in Ternate Cavite 
 Glenn Bryan Creencia 
 DEC.2019-NOV.2020 
 CAFENR 
 CRG 
 118,290.00 

 
 37 
 Determinants of Performance of Science Highschool Students 
 Cecilia B. Banaag 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 26,000.00 

 
 38 
 Determinants of Performance and Status of HEVTED students and Graduates 
 Nancy C. Alaras 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 65,000.00 

 
 39 
 Determinants of Performance and status of Education Students and Graduates 
 Isaias A. Banaag 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 78,000.00 

 
 40 
 Determinants of Performance and Status of OGS Students and Graduates of Education 
 Agnes Nuestro 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 26,000.00 

 
 41 
 

 Design and Development of Automated Laboratory- Scale Green Coffee Beans Grader and Storage Equipment 
 Gerry M. Castillo 

 Al Eugene Torres 

 Ric Karl T. Flores 
 OCT.2020-SEPT.2022 
 NCRDEC 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 42 
 Soil Physico- Chemical Assessment and Mapping of Coffee farm Areas in Cavite 
 Al Eugene Torres 

 Kris Rowell S. Garcia 

 Gerry M. Castillo 

 Antonette Jean L Magcamit 

 Ric Karl T. Flores 

 Maowel A. Villanueva 

 Jayvee M. Mojica 

 Gee Jay C. Bartolome 
 OCT.2020-SEPT.2022 
 NCRDEC 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 43 
 Tree Inventory and Assessment in Cavite State University- Don Severino delas Alas Campus, Indang Cavite Philippines, Using Geographic Information System and Remote Sensing 
 Junser P. Magpantay 
 OCT.2020-MARCH 2022 
 CAFENR 
 CRG 
 200,000.00 

 
 44 
 Preparedness of SUCs in CALABARZON in the Implementation of 

 Flexible Learning in the New Normal 
 Rhodora S. Crizaldo 

 Jovan B. Alitagtag 

 Jake Raymund F. Fabregar 
 SEPT. 2020-DEC.2020 
 CED 
 CRG 
 147,000.00 

 
 SUBTOTAL 
 CRG 
 6,234,238.00 

 
 45 
 Development and Implementation of Security Enhancement using ICT for Cavite State University 
 Ria Clarisse L. Mojica 
 JAN 2019-DEC. 2020 
 CEIT 
 FSRCEP 
 75,000.00 

 
 46 
 Alternative Feed Materials for Rabbit 
 Cherry Reyes Alvarez 
 NOV.2019-AUG.2020 
 CVMBS 
 FSRCEP 
 50,000.00 

 
 47 
 Paperless Clearance System for Cavite State University 
 Russel Villcarlos 
 JAN 2019-JAN. 2020 
 CEIT 
 FSRCEP 
 50,000.00 

 
 SUBTOTAL 
 FSRCEP 
 175,000.00 

 
 48 
 Commercialization of Specialty Coffee Food Products 
 Ruel M. Mojica 
 JAN.2019-DEC.2020 
 RESEARCH 
 DA-BAR/ Magallanes Women's Club Multi-Purpose Cooperative 
 4,890,278.40 

 
 49 
 Upgrading of the Bio-Analytical Services Facility (BASF) of Cavite State University Towards ISO or Third Party Accreditation 
 Agnes Alimboyouguen 
 OCT.2019-OCT.2020 
 RESEARCH 
 DA-BAR 
 5,000,000.00 

 
 50 
 Higher Education Cooperation Towards Transational Education Open Resources ( Hector) 
 Rhodora S. Crizaldo 
 OCT. 2019-SEPT.2021 
 RESEARCH 
 CHED 
 5,200,000.00 

 
 51 
 Reinvigorating the BS Agriculture: Developing Graduates as Agri- Technopreneurs 
 Analita Magsino 
 NOV. 2018-OCT.2020 
 CAFENR 
 CHED 
 4,800,000.00 

 
 52 
 Egxiting: Egg Grading, Sexing, and Sorting using Image Processing and Artificial Neural Network 
 Sheryl Fenol 
 SEPT.2019-AUG.2020 
 RESEARCH 
 (2019 Young Innovators Program Grant) 
 499,000.00 

 
 53 
 Development of Field-Test Kit for Detection of Methanol Contamination in Alcoholic Beverages 
 Hosea Matel 
 SEPT.2020-MARCH 2021 
 RESEARCH 
 DOST-CALABARZON 
 1,074,900.00 

 
 54 
 Patent Mining Program for Selected AANR Commodities through Strengthend IP-TBM Offices 
 Teddy Tepora 
 JAN. 2021-DEC.2022 
 RESEARCH 
 DOST-PCAARRD 
 69,830,168.88 

 
 55 
 Technology Piloting of a Tissue Culture Growth Chamber for Mass Propogation of Coffee and Embryo-Cultured Growth Chamber for Mass Propogation of Coffee and Embryo-Cultured Makapuno (ECM) 
 Gerry M. Castillo 

 Al Eugene Torres 

 Ric Karl T. Flores 
 SEPT.2020-MARCH 2021 
 NCRDEC 
 DOST-CALABARZON 
 967,980.00 

 
 56 
 Low-Cost Portable Molecular Diagnostic Platform for Rapid Detection of Poultry Infectious Pathogens (LMDP) 
 Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. dela Cruz 
 OCT. 2019 – SEP. 2022 
 CVMBS 
 Newton Agham 
 7,006,412.52 

 
 57 
 Molecular-Based Method of Determining the Authenticity of Coffee ( Coffea spp. ) sold in the Philippine Market 
 Miriam D. Baltazar 

 Angelbert D. Cortes 

 Jermaine Marie Ann O. Fabella 
 JAN 2020 – JUN. 2022 
 NCRDEC 
 DA – Biotech 
 5,172,777.20 

 
 58 
 Climate Risk and Vulnerability Assessment of Cavite, Laguna, Batangas and Rizal 
 Dr. David L. Cero, Dr. Analita dM. Magsino, Ms. Jo-an T. Ducducan, Ms. Amyel Dale L. Cero 
 OCT. 2019 – APRIL. 2021 
 CAFENR 
 DA-RO-4A 
 3,860,000.00 

 
 59 
 Pilot Testing an LGU-Based Common Service Mussel Depuration Facility 
 Prof. Arminia B. Pugay 
 JAN. 2019 – JUN 2020 
 NAIC 
 DOST – PCAARRD 
 1,193,575.00 

 
 60 
 Various Research and Development Activities for Emerging Energy Technologies 
 Dr. Camilo A. Polinga , Mr. Danielito R. Escaño, Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar 
 JAN. 2020 – DEC. 2021 
 CEIT 
 DOE 
 6,000,000.00 

 
 61 
 Support to the University's Strategies in Technology Acceleration Initiatives by Nurturing (SUSTAIN) the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management (IP-TBM) Offices of the Consortia Member Agencies 
 Dr. Teddy F. Tepora 
 JAN. 2020 – DEC. 2021 
 KMC 
 DOST – PCAARRD 
 11,370,297.20 

 
 62 
 Enhancing the Agri-Aqua Food Value Chain through Smart Technologies and Partnerships towards Food Resiliency in the New Normal in CALABARZON 
 Engr. Gerry M. Castillo 
 SEP. 2020 – AUG. 2021 
 NCRDEC 
 DOST – PCAARRD 
 2,912,672.00 

 
 63 
 Bio-physical Characterization, Vulnerability and Pollution Assessment in Imus River Watershed 
 Prof. Noel A. Sedigo 
 NOV. 2020 – APR. 2021 
 CAFENR 
 PEMSEA 
 1,694,270.76 

 
 64 
 Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) Fuel Cell Using Electrode Processed 
 Ms. Sheryl D. Fenol 
 OCT. 2020 – SEP. 2021 
 CEIT 
 DOST – PCIEERD 
 499,500.00 

 
 65 
 Evaluative Study of Coffee Quality and Processing Practices in Cavite 
 Dr. Analita dM. Magsino, Eufemio G. Barcelon, Jason D. Braga 
 OCT. 2020 – JUN. 2021 
 CAFENR 
 DA-PRDP 
 1,000,000.00 

 
 SUBTOTAL 
 External Fund 
 132,971,831.96 

 
 TOTAL 
 139,381,069.96 

 
 
 Contact Details: 

 For any concern, feel free to contact us through the following:
 Landline : (046) 862-1654
 Mobile Phone : +639270110387
 E-mail :researchcenter@cvsu.edu.ph 
  

 LINK TO RESEARCH INFORMATION SYSTEM

----- DOC | Organization and Management | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovpre-organization-and-management/ | 2019-10-03 -----
The mandate of the University does not only revolve on instruction but also includes services through research and extension. As it provides quality education to students, it also innovates and discovers new knowledge addressing the needs of the changing times and the demands of the society. Such knowledge also needs to be enhanced and packaged to be shared to the community and other clientele. These three functions all work together for the improvement of lives of people as CvSU develops into a more globally competitive institution.

 The Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension believes that to achieve the goals of the University, some modifications in its current operation must be made, all to function more efficiently as the institution's arm in research and extension. With this, a program entitled REFORM: Research and Extension Framework, Organizational Structure, Roadmap and Agenda was created. It was approved for implementation by virtue of Board Resolution No. 58 s. 2017 signed on September 15, 2017.

 Framework 

 This framework sums up the harmonized operation of OVPRE. The objectives and procedures essential to the accomplishment of the goals should be in line with the mission and vision of the University in coordination with all the stakeholders.

 CvSU R&E Framework shows the research and extension operation of the University at a glance. 

 The primary goal of OVPRE is to conduct relevant research and extension activities as it strengthens partnership or collaboration/linkages. Innovation and learning also require financial support, hence, the office also generates resources considering efficient asset utilization and improving obligation rate. In its commitment to innovate processes, systems and mechanisms, it continuously provides relevant opportunities in increasing engagement and satisfaction of clients and empowering stakeholders. The impact of all these functions are aimed at improving the quality of lives of the community members.

 Structure 

 Goals are visions. Manpower makes these visions possible.

 With this, modifications in the organizational structure of the office were made. This structure is an essential component to achieve the harmonized operation of the office ensuring that all units/divisions have no overlapping functions and are working efficiently as the office envisions to improve its services.

 

 The Office of the Vice President for Research, Extension, Continuing Education and Training Services was renamed as Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension.  OVPRE is in direct coordination with STAARRDEC, the University Research and Extension Council, and its RDE Centers – NCRDEC, SPRINT, Makapuno Center, BRITE Center, and Cellar. The Office of the Vice President is manned by the Monitoring and Evaluation Focal Point, the Management Information Systems Officer, the Communication Specialist and the Administrative Aides. On the other hand, OVPRE is divided into three major units:  Research Center, Extension Services, and Knowledge Management Center.

 Roadmap 

 The products envisioned by OVPRE to manifest in the next five years is summed up in a roadmap which sets direction of its operation. The purpose of this roadmap is to set the direction of OVPRE as it commits to fulfilling its purpose and its commitment to CvSU and the community as well.

 

  

 This roadmap shall be discussed to the research and extension community of colleges and satellite campuses to promote a harmonized operation as it gears to being a research university in the future. It is a product of series of consultation with experts from different fields of discipline who are knowledgeable with the various research and extension programs of the University.

 Agenda 

 Policies are essential to serve as guiding principles of an organization in the fulfillment of its goals. OVPRE, being the University's arm in research and extension, sets the thematic areas or the priority areas on which R & E will be focused.

 

  

 The formulation of the Research and Extension agenda considered the priorities of the University in alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Department of Science and Technology Harmonized National R&D Agenda, Commission on Higher Education National Higher Education Research Agenda and the National Economic Development Authority Development Plan.

----- DOC | Office of Alumni Affairs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/alumniaffairs/ | 2019-09-30 -----
The CvSU Office of Alumni Affairs (CvSU-OAA), under the Office of University President, serves as a communication link of the University to its alumni. The office seeks to encourage partnership between CvSU and Alumni Associations; and strengthen commitment and support of the alumni to CvSU's vision and mission. It assists the CvSU Alumni Associations in planning, implementing and monitoring programs, projects and activities and ensures the participation and involvement of alumni in institutional programs, events and activities, whenever possible. It is also tasked to represent the CvSU and CvSU Alumni Associations in both local and international programs, events and activities.

 Objectives: 

 The CvSU – OAA specifically aims to:

 
 Systematize procedures at the Office of Alumni Affairs to ensure quality service to CvSU and its alumni;

 Perform coordinative functions between CvSU and local and International Alumni Associations in the conduct of alumni programs/projects/activities;

 Establish communication link with alumni;

 Systematize alumni profiling system;

 Strengthen relations with international alumni

 
 Program Components and Services 

 1. Research and Documentation 

 To systematize alumni profiling the CvSU-OAA shall:

 
 conduct alumni survey/ alumni tracking of jubilarians, alumni batches (high school, college and graduate school ) and University alumni abroad;

 track DSAC/CvSU alumni associations abroad;

 update alumni directory;

 collect news and information pertaining to alumni; and

 maintain databank of alumni records

 
 2. Linkages and Network 

 To establish continuous communication link with CvSU alumni, the CvSU-OAA shall:

 
 activate website of Alumni Affairs linked at CvSU website;

 create a facebook page for alumni affairs;

 identify alumni coordinators abroad;

 organize CvSU alumni associations of foreign graduates and alumni associations abroad;

 plan/layout alumni newsletter;

 disseminate/publish news and information in alumni newsletter and in facebook page of alumni affairs

 
 3. Administrative 

 The following are the activities to systematize procedures at the CvSU-OAA to ensure quality service to CvSU and its alumni:

 
 conduct consultative with alumni coordinators and alumni associations of the University;

 formulate operational procedures;

 plan/ layout pamphlets/brochures of alumni affairs;

 maintain and update pamphlets/brochures of alumni affairs; and

 benchmark good practices of alumni affairs of other Universities.

 
 4. Coordinative Services 

 This service component of CvSU-OAA focuses on assisting the CvSU Alumni Associations in planning, implementing and monitoring the following activities:

 
 alumni homecoming, send-off celebrations and oath taking;

 recognition of achievements of alumni;

 alumni scholarships and grants;

 alumni fund drive;

 continuing education program/seminars/symposia/fora; and

 official transactions of alumni to the University

 
 5. Internationalization 

 To strengthen relations with international alumni, the CvSU-OAA shall:

 
 identify coordinators for international alumni;

 identify potentials and interests of international alumni;

 organize CvSU international alumni;

 facilitate involvement of alumni in instruction, research and extension activities;

 update alumni with status, needs and priorities of the University; and

 recognize achievements of international alumni and their contribution to CvSU institutional development.

 
 This page was last edited on 17 June 2025.

----- DOC | College of Economics, Management and Development Studies | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cemds/ | 2019-09-16 -----
HISTORY

 The College of Economics, Management and Development Studies started its existence as a college in 1998 by virtue of Republic Act 8468 converting the Don Severino Agricultural College to Cavite State University.

 The CEMDS has its humble beginning as one of the departments (Department of Social Sciences) under the Office of Higher Education (OHE) of the then Don Severino Agricultural College.  In the early 1980's the Department of Social Sciences was replaced by two departments namely; Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness (DAEAb) and the Department of Rural Development Studies (DRDS) still under the Office of Higher Education.  However, with the creation of four schools under the Don Severino Agricultural College in 1992 namely; the School of Agriculture, School of Education, School of Arts and Sciences and School of Engineering, the office of Higher Education was finally dissolved and the two departments, DAEAb and DRDS were placed under the School of Agriculture.

 On June 10, 1996, through the Board of Trustees Resolution No. 57 series of 1996, the organization structure of DSAC was amended in preparation for its conversion into a University. The School of Agriculture was expanded and renamed School of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and   Natural Resources (SAFENR). With this development, tow of its several departments (DAEAb and DRDS) were treated as one department and renamed as the Department of  Economics, Management and  Development Studies (DEMDS) which was later subdivided into three major units, that is, Economics, Management, and Development Studies.  For several years, the DEMDS was one of the five departments which composed the SAFENR.

 On January 22, 1998 by virtue of Republic Act 8468, the Don Severino Agricultural College was converted into a state university and named Cavite State University (CvSU).  With this important development, the four existing schools were elevated into colleges. At the same time, the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation was created while the Department of Economics, Management and Development Studies was elevated into a college, now known as the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies.

       Initially, the CEMDS has three departments under its supervision, the Department of Economics, Department of Management and Department of Development Studies. In 2008, CEMDS had an additional department with the creation of the Department of Accountancy with the Bachelor of Science in Accountancy as its initial program offering. Various programs, both graduate and undergraduate, are being offered by the College.  Currently these are:  Bachelor of Science in Accountancy, Bachelor of Science in Business Management, Bachelor of Science in Economics, Bachelor of Science in Development Management, Bachelor of Science in International Studies, Mater in Business Administration, Master of Professional Studies and Master of Management.

       CEMDS, now composed of four departments, is continuously strengthening its capability to provide quality service to its clients particularly in the fields of Accountancy, Economics, Management and Development Studies.  Like other colleges and units of the University, it works very hard for the attainment of its goals and objectives and consequently, the University mission and vision.

 College Mission

 The College of Economics, Management and Development Studies shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in economics, management and development studies through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shal support the various production units of the University.

 College Objectives

 
 To produce development-oriented economists, entrepreneurs, managers, researchers, development workers and other professional groups who will be proficient in the fields of economics, business and development management.

 To generate development-oriented researches in the fields of economics, business, development management and other related fields.

 To provide training and assistance to target clientele for continuous improvement of individual and organizational performance.

 To assist in the different income-generating units in the University.

 
 Courses Offered

 BS OFFICE ADMINISTRATION 

 BS ACCOUNTANCY 

 BS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 

       Major Fields:

 
 
 
 Financial Management

 Human Resource Development Management

 Marketing Management

 Operations Management

 Service Management Program

 

 
 BS ECONOMICS 

 BS DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT 

       Major Fields:

 
 
 
 Rural Development Management

 Training Program Management

 

 
 BS INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 

       Major Fields:

 
 
 
 Asian Studies

 European Studies

 

 
 GRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Master in Business Administration

 Master in Management

 Master in Public Administration

 
 This page was last edited on 24 October 2023.

----- DOC | Transparency Seal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/transparency-seal-2019/ | 2019-09-05 -----
I. The agency's mandate and functions, names of its officials with their position and designation, and contact information

 
 The Agency's Mandate and Functions 

 CvSU Key Officials 

 
 II. Annual Financial Reports

 FAR No. 1: SAAOBDB (Statement of Appropriations, Allotments, Obligations, Disbursements and Balances) 

 
 2019: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter

 2018: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2017: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2016:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2015:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 
 Summary Report on Disbursements 

 
 2019: January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December

 2018: January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December 

 2017: January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December 

 2016:   January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December 

 2015:   January | February | March | April | May | June | July | August | September | October | November | December 

 
 BAR No. 1: Quarterly Physical Report of Operations / Physical Plan 

 
 2019: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2018: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2017: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2016:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2015:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 
 FAR No. 5: Quarterly Report on Revenue and Other Receipts 

 
 2019 : First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter

 2018 : First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2017: First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2016:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 2015:   First Quarter | Second Quarter | Third Quarter | Fourth Quarter 

 
 Financial Plan 

 
 2019 

 2018 

 2017 

 2016 

 2015 

 
 III. DBM Approved Budgets and Corresponding Targets

 
 2020: Budget | Target 

 2019: Budget | Target 

 2018: Budget | Target 

 2017: Budget | Target 

 
 IV. Projects, Programs and Activities, Beneficiaries, and Status of Implementation

 
 Projects, beneficiaries and status of implementation 

 Capital Outlay Projects 

 
 V. Annual Procurement Plan

 
  FY2020 Annual Procurement Plan CSE 

 Indicative FY 2020 Annual Procurement Plan (APP-non CSE) 

 FY 2019 APP (F 164 & Trust Miscellaneous) 

 FY 2019 APP for Common-Supplies and Equipment (APP-CSE – CvSU) 

 Indicative FY 2019 Annual Procurement Plan (APP-non CSE) 

 FY 2018 Annual Procurement Plan (APP-nonCSE) 

 FY 2018 Annual Procurement Plan 

 FY 2017 Annual Procurement Plan (APP-nonCSE) 

 
 VI. QMS ISO Certification for at least one core process by an international certifying body (ICB)

 
 ISO 9001:2015 Certificate 

 
 VII. System of Ranking Delivery Units

 
 System of ranking of delivery units and individuals 2019 

 System of ranking of delivery units and individuals 2018 

 
 VIII. The Agency Review and Compliance Procedure of Statements and Financial Disclosures

 
 Certificate of Compliance – SALN Submission 

 Review and Compliance Procedure 

 
 IX. The Final People's Freedom of Information (FOI) Manual signed by head of agency

 
 Freedom of Information Manual 

 FOI Reports 

 
 Accountability Report Cards

 
 2018: MARC 1 | MARC 2

 2017: MARC 1  | MARC 2 

 2016: MARC 1  | MARC 2 

 2015: MARC 1  | MARC 2

----- DOC | College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | https://cvsu.edu.ph/cvmbs/ | 2019-08-27 -----
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

 Cavite State University offered the degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) program in 1997 to strengthen its thrust in the field of Agriculture. It was also in accordance with the Agenda for Development of the then, Don Severino Agricultural College.

 Initially, the program was under the Department of Animal and Veterinary Sciences of the College of Agriculture, Forestry and Environment and Natural Resources. In August 2000, the program was handled by the newly formed College of Veterinary Medicine which was renamed College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) in 2006. 

 Faculty of the college are graduates from the premier veterinary education institutions . Majority of the faculty  members have finished graduate degrees. The faculty members are engaged in full-time teaching, research and extension activities.

 Structurally, the College has three main buildings: the Veterinary Teaching Hospital building which houses the animal clinic as well as fully-airconditioned laboratories, the Administration and Academic Building, and the new CVMBS Academic Building. The Animal Clinic serves as a venue for students to acquire hands-on experience in disease diagnosis, treatment and control in companion, exotic and farm animals to augment and validate their theoretical knowledge in veterinary medicine, surgery and pathology. Special instructions are given in veterinary therapeutics, pre and post-operative care, diagnostic technique, prescription writing, case record keeping, hospital administration and veterinarian-client relationship.

 Furthermore, the CVMBS utilizes the CvSU farm in teaching farm animal restraint, dosing, preventive management and surgery. The farm also provides CVMBS with experimental animals and specimens for instruction and research.

 Aside from the primary function of instruction, the CVMBS serves as a unit for veterinary research and extension. It has established research and extension linkages with other government and private agencies such as the Philippine Carabao Center, Dairy Training Research Institute, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Cavite City Botanical and Zoological Park, Center for Philippine Raptors, Regional Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Batangas Dairy Cooperative, University of the Philippines in Los Baños and private institutions, farms and feed mills. These agencies also serve as venues of learning for our veterinary interns.

 College Vision

 To be a Center of Development in Veterinary Education recognized for molding competent and upright veterinarians.

 College Mission

 To provide quality instruction, research and extension services in the field of Veterinary Medicine through the development, application and dissemination of relevant knowledge and skills in public health, wildlife conservation, animal production, management and welfare; prevention treatment and control of animal diseases and zoonoses which shall benefit the society and the environment.

 GRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Master in Veterinary Studies (open for non-vets)

 Master in Veterinary Science

 
 UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (6 years)

 BS Veterinary Technology (4 years)

 BS Animal Health and Management (4 years)

 BS Biomedical Science (4 years)

 
 UNITS OF THE CVMBS

 Basic Veterinary Sciences

 
 Veterinary Anatomy

 Veterinary Physiology

 Veterinary Pharmacology

 Zootechnics (Production, Nutrition and Breeding)

 
 Immunopathology and Microbiology

 
 Veterinary Microbiology

 Veterinary Pathology

 Veterinary Parasitology

 
 Clinical and Population Health

 
 Veterinary Public Health

 Veterinary Medicine

 Veterinary Surgery

 Veterinary Clinics

 
 Biomedical Science and Biotechnology

 Veterinary Medical Center

 Facebook Page

 https://www.facebook.com/cvsuvetmed

----- DOC | Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development | https://cvsu.edu.ph/ovppd/ | 2018-08-14 -----
The OVPPD assists the University President in the planning and development programs of the University.It spearheads the implementation of the University's quality management system and other quality assurance programs. It supervises the Planning Office, Institutional Development Office (formerly Quality Assurance and Accreditation Center) and the University Management Information System (MIS) Unit.

 Planning Office 

 The Planning Office (PO) supervises the following units:

 
 Institutional Planning Unit

 Physical Planning Unit

 Project Management Unit

 
 The PO spearheads the preparation of the various plans of the University (development, strategic, operational, physical, and investment plans); monitors and evaluates the development plans and projects of the University; conducts the initial performance assessment of the various offices of the University based on the submitted Office Performance Commitment and Review Form; and conducts university performance planning and review conference annually.

   Institutional Development Office 

 The Institutional Development Office (IDO) supervises the following units:

 
 Quality Assurance Unit

 Policy Development Unit

 
 The IDO recommends, implements and evaluates policies, plans and programs that are related to institutional development and plans; monitors and evaluates the internal assessment system of the University; and monitors the implementation of the University's quality assurance programs.

 Strategic Plan  

 
 2016-2022 

 
 

 Operational Plan 

 
 2026 

 2025 

 2024 

 2023 

 2022 

 2021 

 2019 

 
 
 OVPPD Annual Report 

 
 2024 

 2023 

 2022 

 2021 

 2020 

 2019 

 

 CvSU Annual Report 

 
 2023 

 2022 

 2021 

 2020 

 2019 

 2018 

 2017 

 2016 

 
 

 Contact Us: pdo@cvsu.edu.ph 

 

 
 This page was last edited on 08 May 2025.

----- DOC | Mandate, Mission, and Vision | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mission-and-vision/ | 2018-07-09 -----
Mandate

 
 Section 2 of Republic Act No. 8468 “An Act Converting the Don Severino Agricultural College in the Municipality of Indang, Province of Cavite into a State University, to be Known as the Cavite State University” states that,

 “ The University shall primarily provide advance instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas. ”

 
 

 
 Vision

 
 The premier university in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement.

 
 Mithiin ng Pamantasan

 

 “Ang nangungunang pamantasan sa makasaysayang Kabite na kinikilala sa kahusayan sa paghubog ng mga indibidwal na may pandaigdigang kakayahan at kagandahang asal.” 

 
 

 
 Mission

 
 Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.

 
 Hangarin ng Pamantasan 

 “Ang Cavite State university ay makapagbigay ng mahusay, pantay at makabuluhang edukasyon sa sining, agham at teknolohiya sa pamamagitan ng may kalidad na pagtuturo at tumutugon sa pangangailangang pananaliksik at mga gawaing pangkaunlaran. Makalikha ito ng mga indibidwal ng dalubhasa, may kasaysayan at kagandahan-asal sa pandaigdigang kakayahan.” 

 
 

 
 Core Values

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Truth 

 
 
 

 
 Integrity 

 
 
 

 
 Excellence 

 
 
 

 
 Service 

 
 

 
 Quality Policy

 
 
 We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

  

 
 
 
 

 
 This page was last edited on 26 May 2025.

----- DOC | Quality Policy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/quality-policy/ | 2018-07-08 -----
We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

----- DOC | Mandate and Functions | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mandate-and-functions/ | 2018-07-08 -----
Mandate

 Section 2 of Republic Act No. 8468 “An Act Converting the Don Severino Agricultural College in the Municipality of Indang, Province of Cavite into a State University, to be Known as the Cavite State University” states that,

 “ The University shall primarily provide advance instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas. ”

 
 
 Vision

 The premier university in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement.

 
 Mithiin ng Pamantasan

 

 “Ang nangungunang pamantasan sa makasaysayang Kabite na kinikilala sa kahusayan sa paghubog ng mga indibidwal na may pandaigdigang kakayahan at kagandahang asal.” 

 
 
 Mission

 Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.

 
 Hangarin ng Pamantasan 

 “Ang Cavite State university ay makapagbigay ng mahusay, pantay at makabuluhang edukasyon sa sining, agham at teknolohiya sa pamamagitan ng may kalidad na pagtuturo at tumutugon sa pangangailangang pananaliksik at mga gawaing pangkaunlaran. Makalikha ito ng mga indibidwal ng dalubhasa, may kasaysayan at kagandahan-asal sa pandaigdigang kakayahan.” 

 
 
 Core Values

 
 
 Truth 

 
 
 Integrity 

 
 
 Excellence 

 
 
 Service 

 
 
 Quality Policy

 We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

----- DOC | Mandate | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mandate/ | 2018-07-08 -----
Section 2 of Republic Act No. 8468 “An Act Converting the Don Severino Agricultural College in the Municipality of Indang, Province of Cavite into a State University, to be Known as the Cavite State University” states that,

 “ The University shall primarily provide advance instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas. ”

----- DOC | Vision | https://cvsu.edu.ph/vision/ | 2018-07-08 -----
The premier university in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement.

 
 Mithiin ng Pamantasan

 

 “Ang nangungunang pamantasan sa makasaysayang Kabite na kinikilala sa kahusayan sa paghubog ng mga indibidwal na may pandaigdigang kakayahan at kagandahang asal.”

----- DOC | Mission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mission/ | 2018-07-08 -----
Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.

 
 Hangarin ng Pamantasan 

 “Ang Cavite State university ay makapagbigay ng mahusay, pantay at makabuluhang edukasyon sa sining, agham at teknolohiya sa pamamagitan ng may kalidad na pagtuturo at tumutugon sa pangangailangang pananaliksik at mga gawaing pangkaunlaran. Makalikha ito ng mga indibidwal ng dalubhasa, may kasaysayan at kagandahan-asal sa pandaigdigang kakayahan.”

----- DOC | Downloadable Forms | https://cvsu.edu.ph/downloadable-forms/ | 2018-06-19 -----
Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services 

 Request to Enter Form 

 Procedure: Request to Enter 

 
 The requisitioner submits an electronic copy using the prescribed format (VPAS-QF-04) with endorsement from the Unit Head. 

 The Unit Head will endorse the VPAS-QF-04 form to the Office of the Vice-President for Administrative and Support Services (OVPASS) through email, for approval of the VPASS. 

 The approved copy will be reverted to the requisitioner/ Unit Head and copy furnished the University Civil Security Services. 

 
 Office of the University Registrar 

 Pre-registration Form 

 Adding/Dropping/Changing of Subject/Schedule Form 

 Quality Management System Forms 

 University personnel with official account ( @cvsu.edu.ph ) can access and download the approved forms. 
 Click here to view and download

----- DOC | Contact Us | https://cvsu.edu.ph/contact-us/ | 2018-01-19 -----
Office of the Student Affairs and Services - cvsumainosas@cvsu.edu.ph 

> for inquiries about course offering and admission inquiries

 Office of the University Registrar - registrarmain@cvsu.edu.ph 

> for inquiries about TOR, Diploma, and Registrar related concerns

 University Library - cvsulibrary@cvsu.edu.ph 

> for inquiries about library matters

 University Webmaster - webmaster@cvsu.edu.ph 

> for technical problems found on the site and/or any feedback about the systems

 For other offices, please visit our directory here .

 Δ

----- DOC | Gender and Development Resource Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/gender-and-development-resource-center/ | 2018-01-15 -----
Milestone: 

 
 Cavite State University, formerly known as Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC, was already actively involved in Gender and Development as GAD Representative to Southern Tagalog Agriculture Resources Research and Development Consortium (STARRDEC) in early 90's.

 In 2012, the GAD Focal Point System (GAD-FPS) of the university headed by a chair was established through OP Memo No.46, s. 2012.

 The Office of the GAD-FPS was housed at Hostel Tropicana in 2013 through OP Memo No. 69, s. 2013.

 In 2015, the structure and composition of the GAD-FPS, headed by a Director, was approved by the Board of Regents through BOR Resolution No. 64, s. 2015 and OP Memo No. 12, s. 2016.

 On July 16, 2015, the university was assessed by the Commission on Higher Education using the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework as Level 3 which means GAD Application.

 On December 9, 2015, the University was awarded as the Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon by the Regional Development Council, Calabarzon.

 The university was accorded the same award on December 8, 2016.

 The establishment of the GAD Resource Center of the University was approved by the Board of Regents through BOR Res. No. 77 s. 2016.

 The university is able to triplicate its feat of being the 2015 Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon on December 5, 2017.

 For the fifth time, the university received its award as 2024 Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon. This is based on the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework Assessment from 2021 to 2023, the university obtained an average of 85.29% with the GMEF Assessment of Level 4 (Commitment, Enhancement, and Institutionalization).

This milestone reaffirms the university's unwavering dedication to advancing gender equality and inclusive development.

 
  

 

  

 Vision 

 A gender responsive educational institution where stakeholders enjoy equal responsibilities and opportunities.

 Mission 

 CvSU–GAD Resource Center shall integrate and advocate gender equity and equality principles and perspectives in providing instruction, research and extension services.

 Goals.  The GAD Resource Center shall aim for:

 
 Sustainable and gender responsive instruction, research, community development and involvement;

 Gender equity and equality among the academic community;

 Sustainable partnership and cooperation among stakeholders; and

 Gender responsive governance.

 
 Objectives: 

 
 Strengthen the capacity of faculty members in the integration of GAD and other issues and concerns in the course syllabi and instructional materials;

 Enhance data and information on women's' participation in politics, economics, education, peace and order and other activities, and disseminate information to clients;

 Improve level of understanding, awareness, and responsiveness of residents of the community and members of other organizations on GAD issues and concerns and laws on women;

 Establish a repository for gender-related instruction, research, and extension materials and other forms of literature on gender and development;

 Strengthen accessibility of men and women to knowledge management products, resources and networks;

 Establish networks and linkages with other local, national, and international organizations;

 Ensure that the sex-disaggregated data and other vital information obtained from its operations shall be used as basis in decision making processes; and

 Sustain the gender mainstreaming efforts of the University.

 
 Directory 

 
 
 
 
 
 Dr. Maria Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz 

Director
Gender and Development Resource Center
1 st Floor Old College Library Building
Telephone No: (046) 443-2546
Email address: gad@cvsu.edu.ph 
Facebook account: @CvSUGADResourceCenter 
 


 
 
 
 GAD UPDATES 

 SERVICES OFFERED 

 KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTS 

 
 2024 Faculty Quickstat 

 2024 Students Communique 

 CvSU Admission and Graduation Rate (A.Y2023-2024) 

 2023 Students Communique 

 2023 Faculty Quickstat 

 2022 Students Communique 

 2022 Faculty Quickstat 

 2021 Students Communique 

 2021 Faculty Quickstat 

 Fact Sheet for 2020 

 Fact Sheet for 2019 

 Fact Sheet for 2018 

 Gender and Development Extension Briefer 

 Faculty Quickstat for 2018 

 Faculty Quickstat for 2017 

 Fact Sheet for 2016 

 Fact Sheet for 2015 

 
 GAD IEC MATERIALS 

 
 RA 8353 (Anti Rape Law of 1997) 

 RA 9208 (Anti-Trafficking) 

 RA 10627 (Anti-Bullying) 

 
 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 2020-2025 GAD AGENDA 

 ACCOMPLISHMENT REPORTS 

 
 2025 

 2024 

 2023 

 2022 

 2021 

 2020 

 2019 

 2018 

 2017 

 2016 

 2015 

 
 ANNUAL GAD PLAN AND BUDGET 

 
 2025 

 2024 

 2023 

 2022 

 2021 

 2020 

 2019 

 2018 

 2017 

 
 
 
 
 E-mail Address:  gad@cvsu.edu.ph 


 
 
 This page was last edited on 3 July 2025.

----- DOC | Mission, Vision, Objectives | https://cvsu.edu.ph/mission-vision-objectives/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Mandate

 Section 2 of Republic Act No. 8468 “An Act Converting the Don Severino Agricultural College in the Municipality of Indang, Province of Cavite into a State University, to be Known as the Cavite State University” states that,

 “ The University shall primarily provide advance instruction and professional training in agriculture, science and technology, education and other related fields, undertake research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in these areas. ”

 
 
 
 Vision

 The premier university in historic Cavite globally recognized for excellence in character development, academics, research, innovation and sustainable community engagement.

 
 Mithiin ng Pamantasan

 

 “Ang nangungunang pamantasan sa makasaysayang Kabite na kinikilala sa kahusayan sa paghubog ng mga indibidwal na may pandaigdigang kakayahan at kagandahang asal.” 

 
 
 
 Mission

 Cavite State University shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in the arts, sciences and technology through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce professional, skilled and morally upright individuals for global competitiveness.

 
 Hangarin ng Pamantasan 

 “Ang Cavite State university ay makapagbigay ng mahusay, pantay at makabuluhang edukasyon sa sining, agham at teknolohiya sa pamamagitan ng may kalidad na pagtuturo at tumutugon sa pangangailangang pananaliksik at mga gawaing pangkaunlaran. Makalikha ito ng mga indibidwal ng dalubhasa, may kasaysayan at kagandahan-asal sa pandaigdigang kakayahan.” 

 
 
 
 Core Values

 
 
 
 
 

 
 Truth 

 
 
 

 
 Integrity 

 
 
 

 
 Excellence 

 
 
 

 
 Service 

 
 
 
 Quality Policy

 We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals.

  

 
 
 
 
 
 This page was last edited on 8 May 2023.

----- DOC | Contact Us | https://cvsu.edu.ph/contact-us-2/ | 2018-01-13 -----
DR. MA. AGNES P. NUESTRO

 

 Office of the University President

 (046)483 9250 local 1002 | 0960 444 2242 | (046) 840-6937 | office.president@cvsu.edu.ph

 University Officials Effective January 1, 2026 until December 31, 2026 

 
 
 
 
 NAME POSITION Contact Information 

 
 
 
 DR. CRISTINA M. SIGNO VICE PRESIDENT FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS (046)483 9250 local 1004
(046) 862-0806
ovpaa@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 MR. JOHN XAVIER B. NEPOMUCENO VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPPORT SERVICES (046)483 9250 local 1010
(046) 862-0853
ovpass@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MELBOURNE R. TALACTAC VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH, INNOVATION AND EXTENSION (046)483 9250 local 1008
(046) 862-0850
ovpre@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MARY JANE D. TEPORA VICE PRESIDENT FOR PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT (046)483 9250 local 1012
(046) 862-0806
pdo@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. ALMIRA G. MAGCAWAS VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND RESOURCE GENERATION (046)483 9250 local 1006 

 
       

 
 DR. ABIGAIL P. DARIA DEAN, College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (046)483 9250 local 1069
cafenr@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. AMMIE P. FERRER DEAN, College of Arts and Sciences (046)483 9250 local 1075
cas@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MARISSA L. IKAN DEAN, College of Criminal Justice (046)483 9250 local 1097
0915-526-0819
09156684432
ccj@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. LIZA C. COSTA DEAN, College of Education (046)483 9250 local 1064
ced@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MARIA SOLEDAD M. LISING DEAN, College of Economics, Management and Development Studies (046)483 9250 local 1085
cemds@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. WILLIE C. BUCLATIN DEAN, College of Engineering and Information Technology (046)483 9250 local 1055
(046) 415-0021
ceit@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. EVELYN M. DEL MUNDO DEAN, College of Nursing (046)483 9250 local 1090
con@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. ELEANOR J. GALVEZ DEAN, College of Medicine (046)483 9250 local 1100
medicine@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. VICTOR F. PIORES DEAN, College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation (046)483 9250 local 1094
cspear@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. KATHERINE D. PEREN DEAN, College of Tourism and Hospitality Management (046)483 9250 local 1066
cthm@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. REZIN C. BAHIA DEAN, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (046)483 9250 local 1082
(046) 862-0939
862-0940
cvmbs@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. BETTINA JOYCE P. ILAGAN DEAN, College of Advance and Professional Studies (046)483 9250 local 1042
(046) 890-5926
gs.olc@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. MENVYLUZ S. MACALALAD Campus Administrator, CvSU Bacoor City Campus (046)476-5029
cvsubacoor@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. JENNY BEB F. ESPINELI Campus Administrator, CvSU Carmona Campus (046) 430-3509
cvsucarmona@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASSO. PROF. MA. CRISTINA J. BAESA Campus Administrator, CvSU Cavite City Campus (046) 230-0314
cvsucavitecity@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASSO. PROF. MARILOU P. LUSECO Campus Administrator, CvSU General Trias Campus 

 
 DR. ARMI GRACE B. DESINGAÑO Campus Administrator, CvSU Imus Campus (046) 471-6607
cvsuimus@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. ARMINA B. PUGAY Campus Administrator, Naic Campus (046) 856-0942
cvsunaic@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. LAURO B. PASCUA Campus Administrator, Rosario Campus (046) 437-6659
437-1109
cvsurosario@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. JONATHAN R. DIGMA Campus Administrator, CvSU Silang Campus (046) 513-5706
cvsusilang@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASSO. PROF. MILDRED A. SEBASTIAN Campus Administrator, CvSU Tanza Campus 

 
 ASSO. PROF. NOEL A. SEDIGO Campus Administrator, CvSU Trece Martires City Campus 

 
 DR. GEMMA S. LEGASPI Center Administrator, CvSU Learning Center - Dasmariñas City 

 
 PROF. JAZMIN P. CUBILLO Principal, CvSU Maragondon Campus (046) 482-9254
maragondon@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
   

 
 ASST. PROF. CLARK L. COSTA Director, University Sports and Development Office (046)483 9250 local 1052
sportsdirector@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 MS. EDWINA O. RODEROS Director, Office of the University Registrar (046)483 9250 local 1026
(046) 862-0853
registrarmain@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 MS. SHARON M. ISIP Dean, Office of the Student Affairs and Services (046)483 9250 local 1025
(046) 481-8722
cvsuosasmain@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 MS. PRINCESS N. RODERNO Director, Office of the University Librarian (046)483 9250 local 1038
cvsulibrary@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. PATRICK GLENN C. ILANO Manager, Hostel Tropicana (046)483 9250 local 1035
+639659437460
 (046)4432837
hosteltropicana@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASSO. PROF. RODERICK M. RUPIDO Director, Alumni Affairs Office (046)483 9250 local 1049
alumniaffairs@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MIRIAM D. BALTAZAR Director, Research Center (046)483 9250 local 1031
(046) 862-1654
researchcenter@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. RACQUEL G. AGUSTIN Director, Extension Services Center (046)483 9250 local 1029
(046) 482-2010
extension@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. AGNES C. FRANCISCO Director, Knowledge Management Center (046)483 9250 local 1030
(046) 862-0859
kmc.cvsu@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. ANGELBERT D. CORTES Director, National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (046)483 9250 local 1034
(046)415-0329
ncrdec@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. EDGARDO A. GONZALES Director, Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade Center (046)483 9250 local 1050
sprintcenter@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. HOSEA DL. MATEL Director, Macapuno Research and Development Center (046)483 9250 local 1033 

 
 ASSO. PROF. MICHELE T. BONO Director, Bee Research, Innovation, Trade, and Extension Center (046)483 9250 local 1037
britecenter@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. BERNARD S. FERANIL Director, Center for Language Learning and Research (046)483 9250 local 1041
cellar@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. GENER T. CUENO Director, Center for Leadership and Public Policy, Research and Training 

 
 ASSO. PROF. NANCY C. ALARAS Director, Production and Resource Generation 

 
 DR. JESSIE ANNE T. DEMETILLO Director, Business Affairs and Marketing Office (046)483 9250 local 1053
 

 
 DR. MARIA CORAZON A. BUENA Director, Agri-Eco Tourism Park (046)483 9250 local 1036
(046) 482-4385
agri-ecopark@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. PAULYN JAYZIELL S. BUHAY Head, Events Management Office 

 
 MS. ADORA JOY T. PLETE Director, Administrative Services Office (046) 419-4278 

 
 MS. GILDA C. CRYSTAL Director - Finance Management Services Office (046) 419-4067
fmso@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. TITA C. LOPEZ Director, General Services Office (046)483 9250 local 1027
pps@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. QUINTIN L. SUBONG IV OIC, Human Resource and Development Office (046)483 9250 local 1017
(046) 419-4527
cvsuhrd@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. MARLOU G. IDANAN Director, Health Services Unit (046)483 9250 local 1040
(046) 423-1335
infirmary@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. SUSAN G. TAN Director, Civil Security Services (046)483 9250 local 1045 

 
 MS. EMELINE C. GUEVARRA Director, Information and Communications Technology Office (046)483 9250 local 1054
icto@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ENGR. ORLANDO B. DELOS REYES Director, Project Management Office obdreyes@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ENGR. GERRY M. CASTILLO Director, Planning and Development Office pdo@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. PIA RHODA P. LUCERO Director, Quality Assurance Office (046)483 9250 local 1047 

 
 MS. CATHERINE J. QUIÑONES Director, Presidential Management Coordinating Office (046) 415-0010
office.president@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASST. PROF. LIWAYWAY P. TAGLINAO Director, University Pollution Control Office (046)483 9250 local 1051
pco@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 DR. TANIA MARIE P. MELO Director, Public Affairs and Communications Office (046)483 9250 local 1021
paco@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ASSO. PROF. MA. VERONICA P. PEÑAFLORIDA Director, International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (046)483 9250 local 1043 

 
 DR. MA. CYNTHIA R. DELA CRUZ Director, Gender and Development Resource Center (046)483 9250 local 1046
(046) 443-2546
gad@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 ATTY. ROSS CAMILLE SALAZAR-TALLEDO Director, Legal Services Office 

 
   

 
 
 

 This page was last edited on 2 June 2026.

----- DOC |  | https://cvsu.edu.ph/home/ | 2017-12-21 -----
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sPqXEUiwrxU 

 
 https://youtu.be/b17d85SAU9k 

 
 

 
 
 
 News Updates

 

 
 
 

 CvSU achieves 95.56% passing rate in June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects 

 Cavite State University proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of its Main Campus in the June 2026 Licensure Examination for Architects…

 

 CvSU ranks 1001-1500th in THE Sustainability Impact Ratings 

 Cavite State University (CvSU) improved to 1001-1500th ranking in the Times Higher Education (THE) Sustainability Impact Ratings 2026. 

 

 Congratulations to CvSU's 38 new CPAs 

 Cavite State University recognizes the hard work, dedication, and perseverance of our examinees as we achieved a 57.58% overall performance…

 
 View All News Updates 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 Announcements

 

 
 
 

 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗧𝘄𝗼 (𝟮) 𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗦𝗲𝗰𝘁𝗼𝗿 𝗥𝗲𝗽𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗻𝘁𝗮𝘁𝗶𝘃𝗲𝘀 (𝗣𝗦𝗥) 𝘁𝗼 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗚𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗕𝗼𝗮𝗿𝗱 (Extended) 

 𝐂𝐀𝐋𝐋 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐍𝐎𝐌𝐈𝐍𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍𝐒 𝐄𝐗𝐓𝐄𝐍𝐃𝐄𝐃! The Cavite State University Board of Regents announces the 𝗲𝘅𝘁𝗲𝗻𝘀𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗼𝗳 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗱𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗲 for the 𝗦𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵…

 

 4th International Conference on WELA 2026 

 WELA 2026
 

 FINAL CALL FOR ABSTRACTS | 𝟰𝘁𝗵 𝗜𝗻𝘁𝗲𝗿𝗻𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻𝗮𝗹 𝗖𝗼𝗻𝗳𝗲𝗿𝗲𝗻𝗰𝗲 𝗼𝗻 𝗪𝗼𝗺𝗲𝗻 𝗘𝗺𝗽𝗼𝘄𝗲𝗿𝗺𝗲𝗻𝘁 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗟𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗲𝗿𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗽 𝗶𝗻 𝗔𝗴𝗿𝗶𝗰𝘂𝗹𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗲, 𝗔𝗾𝘂𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗰 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗡𝗮𝘁𝘂𝗿𝗮𝗹…

 

 Madalas na Katanungan o Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Tungkol sa Proseso ng College Admission sa Cavite State University 

 Narito ang mga Madalas na Katanungan o Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) tungkol sa proseso ng college admission sa Cavite State…

 

 First Semester SY 2025-2026 Application for Admission 

 𝐀𝐏𝐏𝐋𝐈𝐂𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐀𝐃𝐌𝐈𝐒𝐒𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐅𝐈𝐑𝐒𝐓 𝐒𝐄𝐌𝐄𝐒𝐓𝐄𝐑 𝐒.𝐘. 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟱-𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟲 𝐢𝐧 𝐂𝐀𝐕𝐈𝐓𝐄 𝐒𝐓𝐀𝐓𝐄 𝐔𝐍𝐈𝐕𝐄𝐑𝐒𝐈𝐓𝐘 𝐛𝐞𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐬 𝐨𝐧 𝐍𝐎𝐕𝐄𝐌𝐁𝐄𝐑 𝟭𝟴, 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟰. 𝐒𝐂𝐀𝐍 𝐓𝐇𝐄 𝐐𝐑…

 View All announcements 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 Academic Calendar

 
 
 
 
 Activities 
 Date 

 
 
 
 Evaluation/Pre-Registration Period (New Students) 
 July 1-30, 2021 

 
 Registration Period 
 July 27 - August 31, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Beginning of Classes 
 September 6, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Last day for Adding and Changing of Subjects 
 September 24, 2021 

 
 Last day for Dropping of Subject(s) without evaluation 
 October 1, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Preliminary Examination) (1st Payment) 
 September 20-23, 2021 

 
 College Academic Council Meetings 
 October 7, 2021 

 
 Preliminary Examinations 
 October 11 - 16, 2021 

 
 Last day of filing of application for graduation (College Registrar) 
 October 21, 2021 

 
 Submission of List of Candidates for Mid-Year Graduation by the Deans to OUR together with Application for Graduation 
 October 28, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Midterm Examination) (2nd payment) 
 October 25 - 28, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Midterm Examination 
 November 2 - 6, 2021 

 
 Academic Break 
 November 8-13, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Submission of Complete List of Qualified Candidates for Mid-Year Graduation by the OUR to OVPAA 
 November 18, 2021 

 
 Pre Employment Seminar 
 November 16 - 18, 2021 

 
 Student Evaluation for Teachers and Classroom Observation 
 November 2 - 11, 2021 

 
 Payment of Fees for paying students (Pre-Final Exam) (3rd payment) 
 November 15 - 25, 2021 

 
 Last Day of Submission of Classroom Observation Report 
 December 2, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Pre-Final Examination 
 November 9 - December 4, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 Last Day of Settlement of Deficiencies for Graduating Students 
 December 23, 2021 

 
 Last Day for Thesis Final Defense (Graduating) 
 January 8, 2022 

 
 Payment of Fees for graduating students (Final Examination) (4th payment) 
 December 20, 2021 - January 6, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Final Examination (Graduating) 
 January 3-8, 2022 

 
 Final Examination (Non-Graduating) 
 January 10 - 13, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Last Day of Submission and Uploading of Grades (Graduating) 
 January 13, 2022 

 
 Last Day of Submission and Uploading of Grades (Non-Graduating) 
 January 20, 2022 

 
 Submission of Faculty Workload to OVPAA 
 January 17, 2022 

 
 Removal Examination (grade of 4.0) 
 January 17-20, 2022 

 
 Submission of Manuscript 
 January 24, 2022 

 
 Last Day of Submission of Report of Completion (for any deficiency) 
 January 26, 2022 

 
 Submission of Graduation Clearance 
 January 27, 2022 

 
 College Academic Council Meetings 
 February 1-4, 2022 

 
 University Academic Council Meeting 
 February 10, 2022 

 
 
 

 
 Graduation Day 
 TBA 

 
 
 

 
 Christmas Break 
 December 24, 2021 - January 2, 2022 

 
 Semestral Break 
 January 17 - February 6, 2021 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 Open Calendar

----- DOC | Completion of General Education Building | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/05/completion-of-general-education-building-2/ | 2026-05-01 -----
MINUTES OF THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE AND BID BULLETIN 

 Minutes of the Pre-bidding Conference 

 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 INVITATION TO APPLY FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TO BID 

 ITB 

 BID DOCUMENTS 

 BID DOCS 

 BILL OF QUANTITIES 

 BOQ 

 PLAN 

 PLAN 

 ADDITIONAL PLAN

----- DOC | CvSU kicks off 2026 National Women's Month with a call for Gender-Transformative and Inclusive Leadership | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/03/cvsu-kicks-off-2026-national-womens-month-with-a-call-for-gender-transformative-and-inclusive-leadership/ | 2026-03-23 -----
In commemoration of the 2026 National Women's Month, Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), officially launched this year's celebration through an activity titled “Empower to Lead: Championing Gender-Transformative and Inclusive Leadership,” held on March 16, 2026, at S.M. Rolle Hall. 

 The event gathered student leaders, faculty members, and University officials in a collective effort to promote gender equality, inclusivity, and transformative leadership within the academic community. 

 

 The program commenced with an opening message from University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, where she highlighted the essence of gender-transformative and inclusive leadership through her statement, “Ang pamumuno ay hindi lamang pribilehiyo ng iilan, kundi karapatan at kakayahan ng lahat.” 

 Her message emphasized that leadership should be accessible to all, regardless of gender, reaffirming the University's alignment with the national theme, “WE (Women and Everyone) for Gender Equality and Inclusive Society (2023–2028).” This theme highlights the importance of collective action in advancing equality, empowerment, and social inclusion. 

 The seminar proper featured a series of expert-led discussions that provided participants with a deeper understanding of Gender and Development (GAD). 

 The first speaker, Asst. Prof. King David J. Agreda, presented an insightful discussion on gender sensitivity as a holistic and evolving framework. He introduced key approaches such as Women in Development (WID), Women and Development (WAD), and Gender and Development (GAD), explaining their distinctions and contributions to development discourse. He emphasized that GAD goes beyond inclusion by addressing structural inequalities and power imbalances among all genders. His remark, “Ang pagiging emotional ay walang gender na sinabi,” reinforced the idea that human experiences and expressions are not confined by gender stereotypes. 

 (From left to right) Asst. Prof. King David J. Agreda, PCW NGRP Batch 9, discussing Gender Sensitivity Orientation; Ms. Irene L. Pua, Senior Legal Associate, UP College of Law – Gender Law and Policy Program, discussing RA 7877 and RA 11313, and USec. Ma. Arlene S . Borja, Undersecretary, Commission on Filipinos Overseas, Executive Director V discussing RA 9208 as ammended by RA 10364 
 Further strengthening the participants' awareness of rights and protections, Atty. Irene G. Pua, senior legal associate from the University of the Philippines College of Law, discussed the key legal frameworks addressing sexual harassment. She highlighted the provisions of Republic Act No. 7877 and Republic Act No. 11313, also known as the “Bawal Bastos Law.” Her discussion emphasized that sexual harassment may occur in both educational and workplace settings and can be committed by individuals in positions of authority, including teachers, supervisors, and trainers. She also explained the concept of threefold liability—criminal, civil, and administrative—highlighting the accountability of offenders and the protection afforded to victims. 

 The final speaker, USec. Ma. Arlene S. Borja of the Commission on Filipinos Overseas, delivered a discussion on the pressing issue of human trafficking. She elaborated on Republic Act No. 9208, as amended by Republic Act No. 10364, which strengthen the country's response to trafficking by expanding its scope to include emerging forms such as cyber-trafficking, fraudulent adoption, and child exploitation. She further emphasized the severe penalties imposed on offenders, underscoring the gravity of such violations and the need for heightened awareness and vigilance. 

 

 In addition to the seminar discussions, the GADRC distributed “WeAreAllGADRC” pins to participants. This initiative served as a symbolic reminder that advancing GAD is a shared responsibility. While the GADRC leads institutional efforts, every member of the CvSU community plays a vital role in promoting gender equality, inclusivity, and empowerment. The message behind #WeAreAllGADRC affirms that the center's mission and vision extend to all stakeholders, fostering a collective commitment to inclusive development. 

 Overall, the activity successfully provided participants with valuable knowledge on gender sensitivity, legal rights, and social responsibility. It reinforced the importance of inclusive and gender-transformative leadership in creating safe, equitable, and empowering environments. Through initiatives such as this, CvSU continues to uphold its commitment to promoting gender equality and building a community where leadership, opportunity, and respect are accessible to all. (by Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc)

----- DOC | CvSU hosts WELA 2026: Advancing Inclusive Leadership and Foresight for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/03/cvsu-hosts-wela-2026-advancing-inclusive-leadership-and-foresight-for-agriculture-aquatic-and-natural-resources/ | 2026-03-23 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) successfully conducted this year's International Conference on Women Empowerment and Leadership in Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources (WELA 2026) with the theme: “Inclusive Leadership and Foresight for Sustainable Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources” held on March 17-19, 2026, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 WELA is an annual conference initiated by the eight Filipinas as part of their Re-entry Action Plan (REAP) under the Meryl Williams Fellowship (MWF) of the Gender Equity in Agriculture Research for Development (GEAReD), the gender and development arm of the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR). 

 The conference serves as a catalyst for advancing gender-inclusive leadership and innovative foresight in the Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources (AANR) sector, with a particular focus on promoting gender equality and empowering women. Bringing together diverse stakeholders, it promotes collaboration, equity, and the sharing of best practices, which are essential for addressing complex challenges in sustainable development. 

 This event was funded by the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST-PCAARRD); ACIAR; and Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA). WELA 2026 is also organized by the CvSU – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO), and the Southern Tagalog Agriculture, and Resources Research, Development Consortium (STAARDEC). 

 

 In her welcome remarks, CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro highlighted the importance of embracing diversity and addressing sector-specific challenges. 

 “Inclusive leadership is essential to advancing sustainable and equitable development in the AANR sector,” she said, urging participants to champion gender equality in their respective fields. 

 The conference also featured messages of support from distinguished international and local partners. Among them were H.E. Marc Innes-Brown, Australian Ambassador to the Philippines, represented by Ms. Johanna Stratton, Counsellor for Political Affairs; Dr. Suzie Newman, General Manager for Partnerships of ACIAR; and Hon. Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., Secretary of the Department of Agriculture, represented by Dr. Karen Kristine A. Roscom, Director IV and Officer-in-Charge of the Policy Research Service. 

 Also present were Dr. Reynaldo V. Ebora, Executive Director of DOST-PCAARRD; Dr. Mercedita A. Sombilla, Center Director of SEARCA, represented by Dr. Rico Ancog, Deputy Director, SEARCA and Ms. Ermelita A. Valdeavilla, Chair, of the Philippine Commission on Women. Support was further expressed by the presidents of partner state universities and colleges, including Caraga State University, Central Bicol State University of Agriculture, Mindanao State University–Naawan, University of the Philippines Mindanao, University of the Philippines Visayas, and Xavier University. 

 Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Professor VI, GADRC Director, Conference Co-Chair, and MWF Fellow, presented the History of WELA and highlighted its role in promoting women's leadership in AANR. Her presentation was followed by the conference highlights delivered by Assoc. Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Associate Professor V, ILCLO Director, and Conference Chair. 

 

 Following the conference presentations, the Trade Fair and Exhibit was officially opened, providing a dynamic platform for showcasing innovations and initiatives in agriculture, aquaculture, and natural resources. 

 The three-day conference featured four plenary sessions that highlighted the importance of inclusive, gender-responsive, and resilient approaches in agriculture and natural resource management. The sessions included: Partnerships for Tomorrow, which focused on strengthening AANR capacity, urban food resilience, and community support; SEARCA Special Session, emphasizing gender and youth inclusion for sustainable transformation of agrifood systems; PCAARRD Special Session, which explored mainstreaming gender in agricultural innovation through institutional platforms, assessment tools, and inclusive value chains; and MWF Special Session, addressing resilient AANR systems and empowering women through science, policy, and econometrics. These sessions collectively highlighted the importance of inclusive, gender-responsive, and resilient approaches in agriculture and natural resource management, emphasizing collaboration, innovation, and empowerment as key drivers for sustainable development. 

 

 A highlight of the event was a fireside chat moderated by Ms. Mercedita “Chi-chi” Robles, offering a dynamic platform for experts and stakeholders to exchange insights on inclusive leadership, gender-responsive policies, and sustainable practices. 

 On the second day, parallel workshop sessions were conducted under the subtheme “Empowering AANR Teams: Positive Workplaces, Research Methods, and Policy Skills.” These included sessions on Building Positive Workplaces, facilitated by Ms. Gabrielle Jade B. Llamzon, Learning and Development Officer Positive Workplaces; Gender Research Methodologies in AANR, facilitated by Dr. Blesshe L. Querijero, Independent GAD Consultant; Policy Analysis and Development in AANR with Policy Brief Drafting facilitated by Dr. Aileen V. Lapitan, Associate Professor, College of Public Affairs and Development University of the Philippines Los Baños; and Innovative Strategies for AANR Econometrics facilitated by Dr. Rene Andrin Villano, Head of the School of Business, Professor of the Faculty of Science and Agriculture, Business, and Law University of New England, and MWF Mentor. These workshops are designed to foster meaningful dialogue, encourage collaboration, and equip participants with practical tools for advancing inclusive leadership, gender-responsive research, and evidence-based policy development. 

 (From left to right) Ms. Gabrielle Jade B. Llamzon, Dr. Blesshe L. Querijero, Dr. Rene Andrin Villano, and Dr. Aileen V. Lapitan 
 On the third day, parallel paper presentations were held under four subthemes: Climate-Smart and Resilient Practices, Digital Transformation, Green and Blue Economies, and Capacity Building and Policy Reform. These sessions brought together researchers from diverse disciplines who shared innovative solutions and practical insights to advance sustainable AANR development. 

  

 The three-day conference concluded with an awarding ceremony recognizing outstanding paper and poster presenters, workshop contributors, and partner institutions for their commitment to advancing gender-responsive leadership and research in the AANR sectors. 

 

 In her closing remarks, Ms. Meliza F. Abeleda, OIC of DOST-PCAARRD's Socio-Economic Research Division, highlighted that gender and development must be at the heart of how research, innovation, and rural development pathways to rural development.  With a call to action to go beyond awareness, urging the development of programs deliberately aimed at promoting equity in the AANR sector. She also reaffirmed DOST-PCAARRD's commitment to fostering inclusive and impactful science, technology, and innovation for the AANR sectors. 

 With the next WELA conference set to be held at Mindanao State University at Naawan, the initiative reaffirms its ongoing commitment to fostering innovation, empowerment, and transformative leadership in gender-responsive programs across the AANR sectors. (by Ellaine E. Todoc)

----- DOC | CvSU presents 'GAD Gave Me You: A Journey of Love, Learning, and Holistic Development' | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/02/cvsu-presents-gad-gave-me-you-a-journey-of-love-learning-and-holistic-development/ | 2026-02-16 -----
Before celebrating the Valentine's Day, the Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar entitled, G.A.D GAVE ME YOU: A Journey of Love, Learning, and Holistic Development on February 12, 2026, via Zoom videoconferencing and Facebook Live. 

 

 The activity aimed to strengthen sexual education so that young people can make more informed decisions; provide concrete tips for recognizing an abusive relationship; emphasize the duty of parents and legal guardians to ensure that their children will be able to reach their full potential in terms of health, social development, and economic potentials; and discuss the need to prepare for marriage and the roles of education, premarital assessment, and counseling. 

 The event was led by GAD coordinators: Mr. Johnnel P. Gatdula, Asst. Prof. King David J. Agreda, Asso. Prof. Arlene L. Estrada, Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza, Dr. Victoriano P. Barliso Jr., Asst. Prof. Thea Maries P. Perez and Richard P. Perez, and Ms. Ma. Lei Anne B. Rupido, RM-BSM, RN, LPT, MAN.  

 From units 1 to 4, they emphasized the journey of love, learning, and holistic development addressing the common problem in relationships. 

 

 For Unit I, Asso. Prof. Estrada, CvSU GAD Resource Pool, discussed “Crush Landing: Sureball Ka Na Ba?,” a talk on attraction, dating, and courtship. 

 

 Unit II by Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza, GAD Coordinator of the College of Tourism and Hospitality Management, focused on the topic “I'm Too Sexy (Responsible Sex): Relationship Boundaries.” 

 

 For Unit III, Dr. Barliso, GAD Coordinator of CvSU General Trias Campus, discussed “MU Walang Tayo, Pusong Nagdurugo.” 

 

 Asst. Prof. Perez and Mr. Perez, GAD Resource Pool, shared their love story in Unit IV with the “Kasal o Kasal-kasalan” discussion.

----- DOC | Advancing Gender-Responsive Governance: Highlights of the 1st Quarter GFPS Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/02/advancing-gender-responsive-governance-highlights-of-the-1st-quarter-gfps-meeting/ | 2026-02-09 -----
The Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS) successfully conducted its 1 st Quarter Meeting on February 5, 2026, from 9:00 AM to 12:00 noon via Zoom videoconferencing. The meeting gathered GFPS members and representatives to review key policy developments, assess accomplishments, and set strategic directions for strengthening Gender and Development (GAD) mainstreaming in the Province of Cavite. 

 The meeting formally commenced with a welcome message delivered by Ms. Aliyah Gonzales of the Office of the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer (OPSWDO) who also presided over the session. The initial agenda focused on the presentation of the minutes of the previous meeting, which highlighted significant updates such as the designation of Ms. Precyl T. Ramos as the Provincial GAD Focal Person and the election of Mr. Angelo A. Peñalba as Chairperson of the GFPS Technical Working Group. Updates on the Plan and Implementation Review of GAD Programs, Projects, and Activities for FY 2025–2026 were also shared, noting the completion of Training Needs Assessment Forms by concerned offices. 

 A major highlight of the meeting was the presentation of Executive Order No. 1, s. 2026 and Executive Order No. 2, s. 2026, both signed by Hon. Francisco Gabriel D. Remulla, Provincial Governor and GFPS Chairperson. These Executive Orders formally reorganized and reconstituted the GFPS and its Monitoring and Evaluation Team, reflecting the inclusion of new members and clearly defining the roles and functions of the GFPS, the M&E Team, and key officials. 

 The Council also reviewed the 2025 GAD Accomplishment Report of the Province, presented by Mr. Peñalba. It was reported that the GAD Accomplishment Report had already been submitted to the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) – Cavite for review. Notably, the Province's GAD expenditure reached PhP 608.76 million, equivalent to 6.84% of the total local government budget, exceeding the mandatory 5% allocation. 

 The plans and priorities for the coming years were likewise discussed. The proposed GAD-related trainings for 2026 include capacity-building on gender analysis tools and gender mainstreaming with basic technical writing for gender-responsive programs and projects. Updates were also provided on the consolidation of the 2027 GAD Plan and Budget which will be submitted to the DILG upon completion. In addition, the Provincial Government of Cavite announced that it will host the 2026 Regional Women's Month Celebration on March 27, 2026, with program details and inter-office responsibilities presented for coordination. 

 Further enriching the discussion, Ms. Beverly Villaruel of DILG – Cavite presented the salient features of Joint Memorandum Circular 2024-01, emphasizing updated guidelines on the preparation of GAD Plans and Budgets and GAD Accomplishment Reports of local government units. Under Other Matters, Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo of the Cavite State University – Gender and Development Resource Center presented the WELA 2026 Briefer and invited GFPS members to participate in the 4th International Conference, with registration fees waived for interested participants. 

 The meeting reinforced the GFPS' continued commitment to institutionalizing gender-responsive policies, strengthening accountability mechanisms, and fostering inclusive and equitable development across the Province of Cavite. (by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | CvSU GADRC conducts annual Workshop on the Preparation of the 2025 GAD Accomplishment Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/02/cvsu-gadrc-conducts-annual-workshop-on-the-preparation-of-the-2025-gad-accomplishment-report/ | 2026-02-05 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted the annual Workshop on the preparation of the Gender and Development (GAD) Accomplishment Report on February 3–4, 2026, at the GADRC Training Room. 

 The activity forms part of the University's continuing efforts to ensure systematic monitoring, documentation, and reporting of gender and development initiatives in alignment with institutional standards and approved plans. 

 The workshop enhanced the technical competencies of GAD Coordinators in preparing accomplishment reports, identifying appropriate Means of Verification (MOVs), and ensuring consistency between implemented activities and the approved GAD Plan and Budget (GPB). 

 The activity commenced with an opening message from Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz who emphasized the value of collaborative efforts among the University's colleges, campuses, and units to ensure that the implementation results of GAD programs are accurately documented and reflected in accomplishment reports. She highlighted that reliable reporting is essential in demonstrating accountability and measuring progress toward gender mainstreaming goals. 

 The resource speaker, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Head of the Training and Courseware Development Division (TCDD) of Extension Services Center and CGRP Batch 2, delivered a comprehensive discussion on the alignment of GAD planning, budget allocations, and target outcomes with actual accomplishments. Her session provided technical guidance on presenting verifiable results and ensuring consistency between planned interventions and reported outputs. 

 The participants included GAD Coordinators from various colleges, campuses, and units of the University. As a workshop output, each participant presented their respective GAD Accomplishment Reports. 

 The closing message was delivered by Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, CGRP Batch 3, on behalf of Ms. Arlene L. Estrada. She highlighted the University's sustained commitment to advancing gender and development through structured planning, evidence-based reporting, and results-oriented implementation. Ms. Perez also served as the moderator of the two-day activity. 

 The workshop reinforced CvSU's institutional commitment to quality assurance in GAD implementation by ensuring that programs are not only strategically planned but also properly documented, measured, and translated into tangible outcomes that benefit the University community and its stakeholders. (by Ellaine E. Todoc)

----- DOC | CvSU GFPS crafts Gender and Development Agenda 2026 – 2031 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2026/01/cvsu-gfps-crafts-gender-and-development-agenda-2026-2031/ | 2026-01-26 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), strengthened the institutionalization of Gender and Development (GAD) by conducting a three-day seminar-workshop on the GAD Agenda on January 20–22, 2026, at View Park Hotel, Tagaytay City. 

 The activity aimed to enhance the participants' understanding of the GAD framework, assess existing gender-related policies and programs, and develop concrete strategies for integrating gender-transformative approaches across the University's core mandates—curriculum and instruction, research, extension, and production. 

 The event formally commenced with an opening address delivered by University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, who emphasized the importance of promoting gender-responsive governance and institutionalizing gender mainstreaming throughout the University in accordance with organizational standards. She highlighted the need to identify and address existing gaps in GAD implementation and emphasized the imperative of ensuring its consistent, effective, and sustainable integration across all institutional processes and functions. 

 Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of GADRC, presented the proposed CvSU GAD Agenda titled “CvSU Ascend 2026–2031.” The CvSU Ascend 2026-2031 Agenda is composed of six goals which are: 1.) Academic Excellence in Gender-Transformative Instruction, 2.) Scholarly Advancements in Gender Research, 3.) Community Development and Sustainable Extension, 4.) Equity and Equality in the Academic Community, 5.) Network Building and Sustainable Partnerships, 6.) Dynamic and Gender-Transformative Governance. This is crafted to further strengthen and institutionalize GAD initiatives across the University and served as the foundational framework for discussions and outputs generated during the workshop. This provides strategic direction for mainstreaming gender-responsive approaches across CvSU's governance, academic programs, research, extension, and operational activities. 

 Dr. Renifer R. Francisco, President of the Gender Equality and Community Advancement Foundation (GECAF) and a member of the Philippine Commission on Women, National GAD Resource Pool (PCW–NGRP), served as the resource speaker. Her extensive expertise and in-depth knowledge of GAD frameworks provided valuable guidance and critical insights that enriched the discussions and strengthened the outputs of the workshop. 

 The event was attended by members of the University's Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS), chaired by the University President. The participants included members of the Executive Committee: Dr. Cristina M. Signo, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research, Innovation, and Extension; Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development; and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation; and the members of the Administrative Council, Faculty and Student Regents, and the GAD Resource Pool. 

 The seminar-workshop highlighted that effective GAD mainstreaming goes beyond compliance and requires the intentional application of a gender lens in planning, decision-making, and implementation across all levels of the University. 

 By embedding GAD principles in governance, academics, and operations, CvSU ensures that development initiatives are inclusive and responsive to the diverse needs of its stakeholders. It conveys the vital message that we are all GADRC, and together WE Ascend, reflecting the University's commitment to leaving no one behind, in full alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their overarching agenda of equitable, inclusive, and sustainable development for all. 

 This initiative reflects CvSU's firm commitment of becoming a gender-transformative higher education institution. (by Ellaine E. Todoc)

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Licensed Professional Teachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-licensed-professional-teachers/ | 2025-12-22 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is pleased to share its performance in the September and November 2025 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT), with passing rates exceeding the national passing percentages. 

 Elementary Level 

 National Passing Percentage: 51.09% 

 
 Main Campus: 86.89% (53/61) 

 Cavite City Campus: 100% (4/4) 

 Imus Campus: 77.78% (14/18) 

 Naic Campus: 83.33% (10/12) 

 Silang Campus: 92.59% (25/27) 

 Tanza Campus: 69.23% (9/13) 

 
 Secondary Level 

 National Passing Percentage: 72.63% 

 
 Main Campus: 86.96% (220/253) 

 Bacoor City Campus: 86.36% (38/44) 

 Carmona Campus: 90.16% (55/61) 

 Cavite City Campus: 91.67% (33/36) 

 General Trias Campus: 87.50% (7/8) 

 Imus Campus: 97.30% (36/37) 

 Naic Campus: 85.19% (23/27) 

 Rosario Campus: 91.49% (86/94) 

 Silang Campus: 92.00% (69/75) 

 Tanza Campus: 86.96% (20/23) 

 Trece Martires City Campus: 95.45% (21/22) 

 
 According to the Professional Regulation Commission and the Board for Professional Teachers, a total of 21,967 out of 43,035 examinees (Elementary Level) and 57,729 out of 79,493 examinees (Secondary Level) successfully passed the LEPT. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/september-and-november-2025-licensure-examination-professional-teachers-results-released

----- DOC | GADRC holds 'Upholding Women's Rights' seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/gadrc-holds-upholding-womens-rights-seminar/ | 2025-12-15 -----
As part of its continuous commitment to upholding women's rights and combating violence against women, Cavite State University (CvSU) through Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a webinar titled “Upholding Women's Rights: Legal Perspectives on Violence Against Women” on December 11, 2025, via Facebook Live and Zoom videoconferencing. 

 The webinar aimed to raise awareness of the issues surrounding violence against women and children (VAWC), including its causes, consequences, and societal impact, while educating participants on the legal framework addressing these concerns, particularly Republic Act No. 9262 or the “Anti-Violence Against Women and Their Children Act of 2004.” It also sought to promote a clear understanding of the roles and responsibilities of various stakeholders, including government agencies, non-government organizations, and community leaders, in addressing VAWC. Additionally, the program aimed to empower women and communities by providing information on available services, reporting mechanisms, and support systems for VAWC victims, and to engage participants in meaningful discussions that offered practical strategies for preventing and addressing VAWC within their respective communities. 

 

 To formally open the webinar, Atty. Ross Camille P. Salazar, OIC Director of the Legal Services Office (LSO), delivered the opening message. She emphasized the importance of understanding not only the letter of the law but also the spirit behind it, underscoring that every woman has the right to live safely, with dignity, and free from any form of violence. She further stated that the webinar aimed to explore the legal protections and remedies available under existing laws and to reflect on how employees, faculty members, and students can contribute to creating a campus environment that respects and upholds women's rights. She also extended her congratulations to the GADRC team for continuously championing gender awareness and for organizing meaningful initiatives. Lastly, she reminded the participants that the webinar was not merely an information session but also a call for everyone to uphold human rights and stand against all forms of violence. 

 

 The discussion was led by Atty. Michelle Alen O. Callo-Alejo, Attorney IV of the Commission on Human Rights – Region V, who provided an in-depth and comprehensive discussion of the legal framework protecting women and children from various forms of abuse. The session thoroughly explained the meaning of VAWC, emphasizing that it encompasses any act or series of acts resulting in, or likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological, or economic harm, whether committed within or outside the family abode. Key definitions under the law were clarified, including dating relationships and sexual relations, stressing that protection under RA 9262 applies regardless of marital status and extends even to women involved in non-marital or illicit relationships, as supported by recent Supreme Court rulings. 

 The presentation further highlighted that the law protects women without discrimination and covers children below eighteen (18) years of age, including those who are incapable of taking care of themselves and other children under the victim's care. It also addressed common misconceptions by explaining that while RA 9262 primarily protects women and children, women and other individuals may likewise be held liable in cases involving conspiracy or abuse against children. The different acts of violence covered by the law—physical, sexual, psychological, and economic abuse—were discussed in detail, supported by practical examples and relevant case law, including rulings that recognize marital infidelity as psychological violence and clarify when failure to provide financial support constitutes economic abuse. 

 The webinar also outlined the essential elements in determining VAWC cases, identified who may file complaints given that VAWC is considered a public crime, and specified the proper venues and prescriptive periods for filing cases. Remedies available to victims, such as the filing of criminal actions and applications for protection orders, as well as corresponding penalties including imprisonment, fines, and mandatory counseling, were emphasized. In addition, important provisions on the prohibition of barangay mediation, custody of children, battered woman syndrome as a defense, confidentiality of records, and the ten-day paid leave benefit for women employees who are victims of VAWC reinforced the State's commitment to safeguarding the dignity, rights, and welfare of women and children while promoting awareness, accountability, and access to justice. 

 

 To formally conclude the webinar, Ms. Elaine Louise P. Soringa, GAD Coordinator of LSO, delivered her closing message where she emphasized the significance of the comprehensive discussion on RA 9262 delivered by Atty. Michelle, highlighting the law's vital role in protecting women and children and the shared responsibility of all sectors in ending violence. She stressed that while legal frameworks exist, violence continues to persist, making collective vigilance and action essential. Ms. Soringa encouraged the public to speak up, report cases of abuse, and support victims, reminding participants that assistance is accessible through VAWC hotlines and Barangay VAW Desks nationwide. She underscored that creating a safe home is the foundation of a society built on respect, equality, and love, and called on participants to use their knowledge of RA 9262 as both protection and guidance in their daily lives. Concluding her message, she urged everyone to sustain the spirit of the 18-Day Campaign by committing to end violence against women every single day. 

 

 Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, Public Information Officer of GADRC served as the moderator of the webinar.

----- DOC | CvSU produces 2 topnotchers in December 2025 Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-produces-2-topnotchers-in-december-2025-agricultural-and-biosystems-engineers-licensure-exam/ | 2025-12-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) posted a 90.24% performance in the December 2025 Agricultural and Biosystems Engineer Licensure Exam (ABELE), above the national passing rate of 59.06%. 

 Two CvSUeños from the Main Campus also made it to the top 10 successful examinees: John Bryan Ayonon Alcantara, 5th place with 88.52%, and Risvel Imac Pantaleon Baligsa, 8th place with 88.40% passing percentage. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 1,475 out of 2,494 examinees passed the ABELE given by the Board of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering in NCR, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Rosales, Tacloban, and Tuguegarao. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/december-2025-agricultural-and-biosystems-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released

----- DOC | CvSU receives 2025 ICONS Awards for internationalization efforts | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-receives-2025-icons-awards-for-internationalization-efforts/ | 2025-12-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is among the Philippine higher education institutions (PHEIs) recognized for internationalization and sustainability initiatives during the Commission on Higher Education's (CHED) Internationalization Champions of Nation-Building and Sustainability (ICONS) Awards 2025 at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City, December 10, 2025. 

 CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro received the Certificate of Commendation in recognition of the University's exemplary performance in globally-recognized university rankings and ratings with its inclusion in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings 2025 (1501+) and World University Rankings for Innovation (280). 

 Spearheaded by CHED through its International Affairs Service, the prestigious ICONS Awards recognizes PHEIs' contributions in advancing sustainability, internationalization, and the ASEAN's regional prosperity.

----- DOC | CvSU hosts Covenant of Understanding Ceremonial Signing with PhilCanEDUCON | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-hosts-covenant-of-understanding-ceremonial-signing-with-philcaneducon/ | 2025-12-10 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) hosted the Covenant of Understanding Ceremonial Signing with the Philippine-Canada Education Consortium (PhilCanEDUCON) for International Collaborative Partnerships on Innovations for Inclusive Global Engagements at the CvSU Hostel Tropicana, December 9, 2025. 

 On behalf of CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, the participants were welcomed by Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation; Dr. Cristina M. Signo, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research, Innovation, and Extension; and Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development. 

 The ceremony was jointly led by Dr. Marlowe U. Aquino, Executive Director of PhilCanEDUCON Infin8, and Dr. Merian Catajay-Mani, President of Romblon State University and Network Chairperson of PhilCan Infin8. As a consortium composed of 21-member higher education institutions (both SUCs and private HEIs) across the Philippines, PhilCan Infin8 continues to strengthen its collaborative network through international partnerships. 

 Also present were distinguished university presidents including Dr. Gemma G. Acedo, President of Catanduanes State University; Dr. Boyet L. Batang, President of Isabela State University; Dr. Elbert M. Galas, President of Pangasinan State University; and Dr. Erwin F. Cadorna, President of the University of Northern Philippines. 

 Institutional representatives likewise graced the ceremony, such as Dr. Vivian C. Peligro of Agusan del Sur College of Agriculture and Technology; Dr. Raquelyn J. Dadang of Central Mindanao University; Mr. Mer Jun Q. Cañas of Davao del Norte State College; Mr. Lilito Gavina of Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University; Dr. Analyn C. Españo of Eastern Visayas State University; Dr. Mee Jay A. Domingo of Mariano Marcos State University; Atty. Dexter C. Lingbanan of Mountain Province State University; Ms. Rosalle A. Dizon of Saint Paul University; and Dr. Connie Aunario of the Technological University of the Philippines. 

 Mr. Andrew J. Siducon, Linkage Coordinator of the CvSU Graduate School and Open Learning College, served as the moderator during the event. 

 This undertaking highlighted the unified commitment of these institutions to advance global academic collaboration, promote inclusive education, and cultivate innovative research and development initiatives across borders.  (with report from International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office)

----- DOC | GADRC collaborates with CvSU Museum on 'Strength of Filipino Women through History' seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/gadrc-collaborates-with-cvsu-museum-on-strength-of-filipino-women-through-history-seminar/ | 2025-12-10 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) through Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina- Dela Cruz and in collaboration with CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum, successfully conducted an in-person seminar titled “Strength of Filipino Women through History” on December 9, 2025 at the CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum. 

 The seminar aimed to honor the strength and contributions of Filipino women throughout history, and to raise awareness on laws and initiatives protecting women's rights and welfare. It also sought to to promote the 2025 18-Day Campaign to End VAW subtheme, “STOP VAW, Look Beyond the Silence, Listen with Compassion,” by fostering empathy and active engagement, and to encourage advocacy and collective action toward a VAW-free and gender-equal society. 

 

 To formally open the program, Dr. Dela Cruz delivered her welcoming remarks where she encouraged the participants to actively engage in the discussions, reflect on their respective roles, and translate the insights gained into meaningful actions within their communities. She further emphasized the significant role of women in shaping the nation, highlighting the importance of empowering women as a vital pillar of national development. 

 

 Dr. Jeffrey Alfaro-Lubang, a professor from De La Salle University, delivered an insightful discussion on the Strength of Filipino Women through History. In his lecture, he emphasized the pivotal role of women who stood at the forefront of the nation's struggles and development, highlighting their courage, leadership, and unwavering commitment to freedom and social justice. He cited notable historical figures such as Melchora Aquino, revered as the Mother of the Katipunan for her selfless support to Filipino revolutionaries through shelter, care, and moral encouragement, and Gabriela Silang, a fearless revolutionary leader who continued the fight for independence and became a symbol of women's bravery and resistance. 

 

 Dr. Alfaro-Lubang further acknowledged the countless Filipino women—both recognized and unsung—whose contributions have significantly shaped the nation's history and progress, reinforcing the enduring strength and influence of women in building the Filipino nation. He further emphasized the vital role of women in political leadership, citing figures such as Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, who served with distinction as a legislator, jurist, and stateswoman. Renowned for her sharp intellect, unwavering integrity, and fearless stance against corruption, Senator Santiago left a lasting legacy in Philippine governance and law. He highlighted how women in contemporary society have become increasingly empowered and visible across various sectors, despite the persistent challenges and issues they face as leaders. He mentioned that women today play crucial leadership roles not only in politics, but also in education, governance, the workforce, and other spheres of society. Through their competence, resilience, and dedication, women continue to break barriers, challenge stereotypes, and redefine leadership. This growing presence of women in decision-making spaces reflects significant progress toward gender equality, while also emphasizing the need to continuously address existing issues and strengthen support systems that enable women to lead effectively and inclusively. 

 In his discussion, he facilitated an activity designed to assist the University in identifying and navigating appropriate courses of action through the development of a safety mapping focused on the well-being of individuals within the campus. Through this exercise, various issues and gaps were identified, highlighting areas that require immediate and sustained attention through gender and development initiatives. The participants actively engaged in the activity by sharing and discussing areas within the University premises where they feel safe and less safe. Through this collaborative process, the University may be able to develop relevant projects, activities, and programs that are aligned with its commitment to fostering a safe, inclusive, and gender-responsive academic environment. 

 

 To formally conclude the activity, Associate Professor Joether A. Francisco, Head of the CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum, delivered his closing remarks where he expressed his sincere gratitude to the GADRC for the meaningful collaboration and partnership, and conveyed his continued willingness to support and take part in future initiatives that the GADRC may develop. He also extended his appreciation to the participants for their active participation and for openly sharing their insights during the collaborative activity. According to him, the ideas and perspectives raised provided valuable inputs that can guide the University administration in identifying and addressing existing gaps, further strengthening the institution's commitment to creating a safe, inclusive, and gender-responsive academic community. (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU participates in CY 2025 Q4 Regional Population Executive Board Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-participates-in-cy-2025-q4-regional-population-executive-board-meeting/ | 2025-12-08 -----
The Commission on Population and Development (CPD) Region IV-A convened the CY 2025 Fourth Quarter Regional Population Executive Board (RPEB) Meeting on December 5, 2025, at the Rafael M. Salas Conference Room, CPD Building, Mandaluyong City. 

 The meeting gathered RPEB members and partner institutions to review previous agreements, address emerging concerns, and strengthen regional collaboration on population and development initiatives in CALABARZON. 

 Chaired by DEPDev IV-A Regional Director and RPEB Chairperson Ms. Carmel A. Matabang, supported by CPD CALABARZON as the RPEB Secretariat, the meeting highlighted the Board's commitment to accountable governance, effective coordination, and evidence-based policymaking. 

 Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center, was represented by Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo and Mr. Johnnel P. Gatdula, reaffirming the University's active participation in regional population and development efforts. 

 Key discussions focused on improving internal governance mechanisms, particularly the monitoring of member attendance, clarification of voting and non-voting membership status, and enhancement of meeting documentation to ensure continuity and transparency in decision-making. The Board also emphasized the importance of data-driven planning, with the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Region IV-A committing to share the 2024 Population and Housing Census results upon official release. 

 Inter-agency collaboration was further strengthened through commitments from the Department of Health (DOH) CHD IV-A, the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) FO IV-A, and the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) IV-A to provide relevant guidelines and sociodemographic data to support maternal, child, and adolescent health programs, including initiatives addressing adolescent health and child marriage among indigenous communities. 

 A significant outcome of the meeting was the approval of RPEB Resolution No. 2025-05, which called for the reactivation and reconstitution of the CALABARZON Adolescent Health and Development Regional Technical Working Group (AHD-RTWG). The expanded membership, including DILG Region IV-A and Provincial Population Officers, aims to enhance coordination and implementation of adolescent health initiatives at the regional and local levels. 

 Other highlights included the recommendation to expand the Buklod Lingkod Information and Service Delivery Caravan to cover senior citizens and older persons, as well as plans to strengthen research utilization through collaboration with state universities and colleges (SUCs). CvSU, together with other SUCs, is expected to contribute to the presentation and dissemination of research outputs on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning, Adolescent Health and Development, and POPDEV integration in upcoming RPEB activities. 

 Overall, the meeting reaffirmed the RPEB's shared commitment to inclusive, collaborative, and data-informed population and development governance, with CvSU continuing to play a vital role in advancing research, advocacy, and capacity-building efforts in the region. ( by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | CvSU, CPD CALABARZON connect with Tanza National Comprehensive High School on Adolescent Pregnancy Symposium | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-cpd-calabarzon-connect-with-tanza-national-comprehensive-high-school-on-adolescent-pregnancy-symposium/ | 2025-12-08 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina- Dela Cruz, successfully conducted the seminar titled “Adolescent Pregnancy Symposium” on December 4, 2025, at Tanza National Comprehensive High School (TNCHS). 

 This activity is part of the University's Gender and Development initiatives and supports the global commitment to Sustainable Development Goal 5 – Achieve Gender Equality and Empower All Women and Girls. 

 The Advanced Adolescent Health and Development (AHD) strategy seeks to empower adolescents to prevent early pregnancies, thereby enhancing their opportunities to realize their full potential and life aspirations. It also aims to capacitate teachers as key agents of change, enabling them to guide students in making informed and responsible decisions regarding their sexuality and personal development. 

 

 Dr. Florencio C. Costa, Principal of TNCHS, warmly welcomed the students and teachers who participated in the symposium. In his message, he highlighted the importance of the strong linkage between TNCHS and CvSU in addressing critical gaps in student awareness and development. Dr. Costa emphasized that partnerships with higher education institutions play a vital role in providing learners with access to expert knowledge, relevant programs, and capacity-building initiatives. 

 

 To introduce the topic, Ms. Cheryl Marie A. Malayang from CPD–CALABARZON began her presentation with a simple English–Tagalog translation activity focusing on key terms relevant to the discussion. This approach helped establish a clear understanding of the concepts and encouraged active participation among the students of TNCHS. Throughout the session, the learners enthusiastically engaged in the various interactive activities prepared by the resource speaker, fostering an environment of openness and dialogue. In her discussion, Ms. Malayang emphasized the importance of understanding the factors surrounding adolescent pregnancy, highlighting its implications on health, education, and overall well-being. 

 

 To formally close the activity, Dr. Dela Cruz, GADRC Director, expressed her sincere appreciation to TNCHS and its administration for their continued partnership with CvSU. She acknowledged the school's commitment to advancing the welfare and awareness of its students by providing opportunities for meaningful discussions on important topics such as adolescent health and development. Dr. Dela Cruz emphasized that collaborations like this strengthen the shared mission of both institutions to equip young learners with the knowledge and values they need to make informed decisions and lead empowered lives. (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU Hornets wrap up STRASUC Olympics stint at 6th runner-up | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-hornets-wrap-up-strasuc-olympics-stint-at-6th-runner-up/ | 2025-12-03 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Hornets wrapped up their campaign with a sixth runner-up finish at the 28 th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges (STRASUC) Olympics, November 22-28, 2025, in Marinduque. 

 With 135 student athletes competing in 11 sports events, the CvSU Hornets brought home 31 gold, 42 silver, and 51 bronze medals in this year's games with the theme “Isang Puso, Isang Kalaro: Kabataang Atleta ng STRASUC sa Puso ng Pilipinas, Nagkakaisa para sa Bayan at Tagumpay!” 

 Joining the 28 th STRASUC host school, Marinduque State University, are other participating state universities and colleges in CALABARZON and MIMAROPA including Batangas State University – National Engineering University, CvSU, Laguna State Polytechnic University, Mindoro State University, Occidental Mindoro State College, Palawan State University, Romblon State University, Southern Luzon State University, University of the Philippines – Los Baños, University of Rizal System, and Western Philippines University.

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes new registered Civil Engineers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-welcomes-new-registered-civil-engineers/ | 2025-12-02 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) posted a 38.1% performance rating in the November 2025 Civil Engineering Licensure Examination, above the national passing rate of 30.39%. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 4,268 out of 14,043 passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Civil Engineering in 19 testing centers across the country. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/november-2025-civil-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-five-5-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawOltxBleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFPTU44dlRCTG96R2VOenRqc3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHoNldJ6-YTxlSfdGrXAuqNe7cPcOQ0U_fv-jzeY6qTqtk5sA369ORbmEEFVi_aem_ZUt8erwUY0qnw_xSXsn_gQ

----- DOC | CvSU opens 18-day campaign with successful Kick-off Ceremony and Run to End VAW | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/12/cvsu-opens-18-day-campaign-with-successful-kick-off-ceremony-and-run-to-end-vaw/ | 2025-12-01 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina- Dela Cruz, successfully conducted the kick-off of the 2025 18-Day Campaign to End VAW with its first activity titled “Run to End VAW” on November 25, 2025, at the CvSU Oval. 

 

 The university-wide activity was actively participated by employees and students from various colleges and offices. To promote inclusivity and encourage wider engagement, the run featured three participation categories: female, male, and LGBTQIA+. The event began with a simple warm-up session to prepare the participants physically, ensure their safety, and energize them before proceeding with the run. 

 

 Dr. Rundina-Dela Cruz, formally opened the program by highlighting the importance of continuously fostering a safer, more equitable, and gender-responsive community. She emphasized CvSU's unwavering commitment to promoting a secure environment where respect, dignity, and protection are upheld, reaffirming the University's dedication to ending violence against women and children through sustained advocacy and collective action. 

 

 The ceremonial Statement of Commitment to End VAW was collectively presented by Dr. Cristina M. Signo, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research, Innovation, and Extension; Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development; and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation. Their unified message reinforced the University's dedication to fostering a violence-free community, demonstrating strong institutional support and leadership in advancing gender equality, safeguarding the rights of women and children, and promoting a culture of respect and protection across all sectors of the University. 

 

 On behalf of Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, University President, the Pledge of Commitment to End VAW was delivered by Dr. Signo. Through this pledge, the University reaffirmed its dedication to fostering a culture of respect, safety, and accountability in all sectors of the institution. 

 The activity then proceeded with the awarding ceremony where winners of the Run to End VAW from each participation category were recognized for their outstanding performance and enthusiastic involvement. 

 To formally close the program, Ms. Ellaine P. Soringa, GAD Coordinator of the Legal Services Office, delivered the closing message on behalf of Atty. Ross Camille P. Salazar-Talledo. In her remarks, she emphasized the continuing mandate to combat violence against women and children, urging everyone to remain advocates of protection, equality, and empowerment. She encouraged all participants to help cultivate a safer, more equitable environment—one where every individual can live freely, without fear, harm, or violence. (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates Nov 2025 Nurses Licensure Exam passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/11/cvsu-congratulates-nov-2025-nurses-licensure-exam-passers/ | 2025-11-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) proudly celebrates the outstanding performance of our BS Nursing graduates in the November 2025 Nurses Licensure Examination. 

 CvSU achieved an exceptional 98.37% overall passing rate, with an impressive 99.18% passing rate for first-time takers, significantly surpassing the national passing rate of 90.05%. 

 We also extend our warmest congratulations to our topnotchers, Althea A. Torrente (Top 8, 92.40%) and Rianna Joy Ando (Top 9, 92.20%). 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/november-2025-nurses-licensure-examination-results-released-fifteen-15-working-days

----- DOC | CvSU celebrates 17 new CPAs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/11/cvsu-celebrates-17-new-cpas/ | 2025-11-13 -----
Cavite State University produced 17 new Certified Public Accountants (CPA) with an overall passing rate of 39.53% in the October 2025 licensure examination. 

 According the Professional Regulation Commission, 3,460 out of 10,171 (34.02%) passed the CPA licensure examination given by the Board of Accountancy. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/october-2025-licensure-examination-certified-public-accountants-results-released-five-5?fbclid=IwY2xjawOCK0ZleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETBsbGFpcmJnNlJ1b1pTWko4c3J0YwZhcHBfaWQQMjIyMDM5MTc4ODIwMDg5MgABHtnWMymPJ3k6bJOdrXUI0QaXltvBsrfIwsi1KLpUbVEG8dk2G4Wo7xUi83DO_aem_ln9v67MBYY1QvODz-DSICQ

----- DOC | CvSU strengthens gender mainstreaming efforts through cascading session and 3rd quarter GAD TWG meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/11/cvsu-strengthens-gender-mainstreaming-efforts-through-cascading-session-and-3rd-quarter-gad-twg-meeting/ | 2025-11-05 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), successfully conducted the Cascading Session cum Third Quarter GAD Technical Working Group (TWG) Meeting on November 4, 2025, at the GADRC Training Room in Indang, Cavite. 

 The activity gathered GAD Coordinators and Alternates, CvSU MOVE KATROPA officers, and members of the GAD Resource Pool, reaffirming the university's commitment to advancing gender-responsive governance. 

 The session aimed to reinforce gender mainstreaming efforts across the university by disseminating the latest updates, institutional practices, and capacity-building opportunities. With a structured cascading approach, the activity ensured that participants were equipped with relevant knowledge and tools to promote gender equality within their respective units. 

 

 Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina Dela Cruz, GADRC Director, presided over the meeting. After the approval of the agenda and previous minutes, she delivered her Director's Report, highlighting her engagements in various GAD seminars and the active involvement of the GAD Resource Pool in university-wide gender advocacy initiatives. 

 A comprehensive presentation of 3 rd Quarter accomplishments followed, showcasing the gender mainstreaming efforts of different colleges, campuses, and offices. These included GAD orientations for students and faculty, integration of GAD concepts in syllabi, gender sensitivity trainings, thesis consolidation with gender perspectives, and inclusion of GAD components in project proposals. Several campuses also carried out initiatives promoting gender-fair language, partnerships for community-based programs, and GAD-focused orientations for interns and OJTs. 

 Offices such as the Legal Services Office, Public Affairs and Communications Office, and University Registrar reported on their GAD-aligned projects, including webinars, communication guidelines, and submissions of sex-disaggregated data. 

 The presentation of 4 th quarter plans emphasized activities for the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women, including IEC distribution, contests, webinars, and an online pledge campaign. The MOVE KATROPA also announced the activities for its Men's Day celebration, promoting positive male engagement in ending gender-based violence. Upcoming activities from the Graduate School, Extension Services Center, and LSO were likewise highlighted. 

 Other matters included the sharing of insights from recent GAD trainings and conferences, as well as updates on the Women Empowerment and Leadership in Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources (WELA) 2026 program. The GADRC also announced its sponsorship for coordinators with perfect attendance and timely submission of reports. 

 The session concluded with strengthened collaboration and renewed commitment among GAD champions, ensuring that CvSU continues to advance gender equality, inclusivity, and empowerment across all sectors. (by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | CvSU is 2nd top performing school in October 2025 Vet Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/11/cvsu-is-2nd-top-performing-school-in-october-2025-vet-licensure-exam/ | 2025-11-03 -----
Cavite State University is the second top performing school (with 50 to 99 examinees) with 89.04% overall performance rating (65/73) in the October 2025 Veterinarians Computer-Based Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 1,108 out of 1,433 (77.32%) examinees passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Veterinary Medicine in NCR, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tuguegarao, and Puerto Princesa. 

 Congratulations to our new licensed veterinarians! 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/october-2025-veterinarians-computer-based-licensure-examination-results-released?fbclid=IwY2xjawNviilleHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETBmSU1yQ3RqUlhtWEdJOFEzAR74E6STxPEWgmR1mIFjbsw3ZXShPaav0ExO3Oe4V4bMndHgOppKV2IayHOnjw_aem_Gw5bbAiJ5ar9oUfUhvQpIQ

----- DOC | CvSU hosts 2025 National Extension Conference; best extensionists, extension projects recognized | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/cvsu-hosts-2025-national-extension-conference-best-extensionists-extension-projects-recognized/ | 2025-10-28 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) successfully hosted the 2025 National Extension Conference on October 8-9, 2025 at the International Convention Center in Indang, Cavite. 

 Spearheaded by the Philippine Extension and Advisory Services Network Inc. (PhilEASNet) led by Dr. Rowena DT. Baconguis, and the Philippine Association of Extension Program Implementers, Inc. (PAEPI) CALABARZON Chapter headed by Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, Director of the CvSU – Extension Services Center, this event served as a venue for knowledge sharing and collaboration among extension professionals and practitioners from the academe, government, and private sectors. 

 The two-day conference centered on the theme, “Food, Health, and Nutrition Extension: Implications to Community Transformations for the Economy of the Future,” highlighted sessions focusing on three key areas: sustainable agriculture and farming practices, nutritional education and public health initiatives, and food systems resilience and economic adaptation.  

 CvSU extension projects, research, and extensionists were also recognized as among the winning entries and presenters during the said conference. 

 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica (Project Leader) received the Outstanding Extension Research Project Award for their project Adoption and Evaluation of a Deployable Food Processing Hub for Coffee with team members Rosalie A. Pelle, Aeron R. Mojica, and Andrew J. Siducon. 

 Meanwhile, Ms. Janine B. Bacosmo (Extension Coordinator) and Mr. Antonino Jose L. Bayson (Faculty Member) from the CvSU Carmona Campus were hailed as best presenters for the parallel sessions on Extension for Community Development and Resilience and Improved Education Delivery . 

 Also presenting their respective extension projects were Ms. Michele T. Bono (Project Leader) and Ms. Michelle C. Tanega (Project Member), Transforming Disaster Preparedness through Technology Transfer: The Siktek Extension Project ; Ms. Sherrlyn M. Rasdas (Author), Community-based Livelihood Project on Sustainable Production, Processing, and Marketing of Milkfish and Tilapia in Naic, Cavite ; and Ms. Karen Krista Escobar-Cajilis (Project Leader), Improving and Revitalizing the Opportunities for Kaong Farmers towards a Better Quality of Life (IROK) . (with report and photos from the CvSU – Extension Services Center)

----- DOC | DOST – PCAARRD recognizes CvSU and RAISE Southern Tagalog's strong strides in technology commercialization | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/dost-pcaarrd-recognizes-cvsu-and-raise-southern-tagalogs-strong-strides-in-technology-commercialization/ | 2025-10-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) was honored with the Executive Director's Award for Excellence in Technology Commercialization of Patents and Utility Models during the Partners' Night of the Regional Agri-Aqua Innovation System Enhancement (RAISE) Summit Week 2025 held on October 13, 2025 at Hotel Casiana, Tagaytay City, Cavite. 

 The Partners' Night sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST – PCAARRD) highlighted the outstanding achievements of 94 State Universities and Colleges and Research and Development Institutes implementing a total of 149 RAISE projects nationwide. 

 Through the CvSU Knowledge Management Center – Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management (IPTBM) Division, led by Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, the university was also recognized as a finalist for the Top Revenue in Technology Commercialization for Non-Patent and Non-Utility Model Award. 

 The RAISE Southern Tagalog program likewise received recognition as a finalist for both the Best Regional RAISE Implementer Award and Best Regional RAISE Video Award. The regional video was developed by the Regional Knowledge Management (KM) Team, led by Dr. Lloyd O. Balinado, Project Leader, and Ms. Christine Polyanna Zabariza, Project Technical Assistant III. The DOST – Forest Products Research and Development Institute (DOST-FPRDI), one of the implementing agencies under Southern Tagalog, was also recognized as a finalist for Outstanding ATBI – Basic and Advanced Category. 

 The awards were received by Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU President and RAISE Southern Tagalog Advisory Council Chairperson, together with Dr. Teddy F. Tepora (RAISE Southern Tagalog Program Leader), Dr. Almira G. Magcawas (STAARRDEC Executive Director), Mr. Rodell Papa (RAISE Southern Tagalog Assistant Program Leader), Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome (Regional Agribusiness Hub Project Leader), Ms. Rowena R. Noceda (Regional ATBI Project Leader), and Dr. Balinado (Regional KM Project Leader). 

 CvSU currently implements four major RAISE projects—the IPTBM, Regional Agribusiness Hub, Regional Agri-Aqua Technology Business Incubator (ATBI), and Regional KM Hub. As the Regional Lead for Southern Tagalog, CvSU oversees and supports technology commercialization efforts across 11 partner agencies, contributing significantly to PCAARRD's goal of strengthening agri-aqua innovation ecosystems. (Report by Rhuzel Leinster Dean J. Julian)

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's new Electronics Engineers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/congratulations-to-cvsus-new-electronics-engineers/ | 2025-10-24 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) proudly congratulates the successful passers of the October 2025 Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination! 

 CvSU achieved an overall performance rating of 57.14%, surpassing the national passing percentage of 44.85%. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/october-2025-electronics-engineers-and-electronics-technicians-licensure-examinations

----- DOC | CvSU GADRC conducts 'Strength in Every Stride' seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/cvsu-gadrc-conducts-strength-in-every-stride-seminar/ | 2025-10-22 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, successfully conducted an in-person seminar titled “Strength in Every Stride” on October 21, 2025, at the GADRC Training Room. 

 The seminar aims to raise awareness on the importance of integrating Gender and Development (GAD) principles into public health; present sex-disaggregated data to emphasize gender-specific vulnerabilities and capacities in health; promote active dialogue on how gender-responsive strategies can improve health systems, community resilience, and sustainability, and encourage collective action through practical approaches that individuals, families, and communities can adopt to support gender-equitable public health outcomes. 

 

 In her opening message, Dr. Rundina-Dela Cruz underscored the significance of discussing gender-responsive strategies that could help improve public health among individuals, families, and communities. She then introduced the resource speaker for the session. 

 

 The main discussion began with the topic “Strength in Every Stride: Lessons from the Road to Veterinary Fulfilment,” delivered by Dr. Chika Okafor from the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine. In his presentation, Dr. Okafor emphasized three core principles that shape both personal and professional success in the field of veterinary medicine—pacing, resilience, and support. He explained that success is self-defined and that true progress comes from pacing oneself effectively by setting realistic goals, maintaining balance between work and rest, and celebrating small victories along the way. 

 Dr. Okafor also highlighted the importance of resilience, describing it as the capacity to adapt to and recover from adversity. Drawing from his own experiences in veterinary and graduate studies, he illustrated that setbacks and rejections are inevitable but serve as opportunities for growth and learning. Furthermore, he dispelled common misconceptions about resilience, clarifying that it does not mean enduring hardships alone or recovering instantly from challenges. 

 

 Lastly, Dr. Okafor discussed the significance of building a support network, which includes emotional, informational, instrumental, and professional assistance. He stressed that cultivating meaningful relationships plays a vital role in achieving both personal fulfillment and professional success, encapsulated in his statement that “your network is your net worth.” Concluding his talk, he encouraged participants to pace themselves, remain resilient, and nurture supportive relationships as they pursue their own paths toward fulfillment, reminding everyone that while “pain is temporary, purpose is permanent.” (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its 8 newly registered Fisheries Professionals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/cvsu-congratulates-its-8-newly-registered-fisheries-professionals/ | 2025-10-20 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) proudly congratulates its eight newly registered Fisheries Professionals who are among the twelve examinees from the Naic Campus in the October 2025 Fisheries Professionals Licensure Examination (FPLE). 

 CvSU Naic examinees achieved an overall performance rate of 66.67% in the FPLE held on October 9-10, 2025. 

 These new professionals join the 1,507 out of 2,165 examinees nationwide (69.61% passing rate) who successfully earned their licenses, marking another milestone for CvSU Naic's commitment to academic excellence and professional development in the field of fisheries. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/october-2025-licensure-examination-fisheries-professionals-results-released-three-3-working

----- DOC | Samar State University – Advocacy on Gender and Women Advancement for National Development (SAGWAN) benchmarking visit to CvSU GADRC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/samar-state-university-advocacy-on-gender-and-women-advancement-for-national-development-sagwan-benchmarking-visit-to-cvsu-gadrc/ | 2025-10-13 -----
The Samar State University – Advocacy on Gender and Women Advancement for National Development (SAGWAN) conducted a benchmarking visit on October 9, 2025, at the Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) to gain insights into the university's gender mainstreaming efforts. 

 

 The SSU delegation, headed by Ms. Charmaine R. Quiña, MAN, Director of SAGWAN, together with other university representatives, was warmly welcomed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the CvSU GADRC. In her welcome remarks, Dr. Dela Cruz highlighted the value of fostering partnerships, sharing best practices, and cultivating a culture of continuous learning among institutions to advance gender-responsive initiatives. 

 

 The program featured a presentation on CvSU's exemplary gender mainstreaming practices delivered by Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC Staff. The SSU team also toured several vital university offices, including the University Library, Planning Management Office, and Procurement Office, to observe the practical application of gender and development principles in institutional operations. 

 Through this activity, the SSU delegation learned from CvSU's best practices in gender mainstreaming, policy formulation, and program implementation. This undertaking also aimed to foster meaningful partnerships and collaborative dialogues on promoting gender responsiveness in education; and to apply these key learnings to the enhancement of SSU's GAD Plan and its integration into the university's overall strategic planning. 

 The benchmarking visit served as a platform for institutional learning and collaboration, reinforcing both universities' commitment to advancing gender-responsive programs and fostering inclusive development. (by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | SLSU visits GADRC for benchmarking activity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/slsu-visits-gadrc-for-benchmarking-activity/ | 2025-10-09 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), formally welcomed delegates from Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) for a benchmarking activity held on October 7, 2025. 

 The event, spearheaded by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of GADRC, served as a meaningful platform to strengthen collaboration, exchange insights, and reinforce both institutions' commitment to advancing gender-responsive development. 

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, a member of the National GAD Resource Pool Batch 9, presented CvSU's exemplary practices anchored on the Philippine Commission on Women's (PCW) four entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF), which serves as the institutional guide for gender integration. He also discussed university policies supporting GADRC initiatives, enabling mechanisms that promote stakeholder engagement, and the various programs, activities, and projects that advance diversity, equity, and inclusion across the institution. 

 One of the program's highlights was the open forum, where representatives from both universities actively exchanged ideas and shared effective strategies for gender mainstreaming. The discussion transformed institutional commitments into actionable approaches, fostering a deeper understanding of gender advocacy in higher education. 

 

 CvSU and SLSU collectively reaffirmed their dedication to advancing gender equality and fostering inclusive development through sustained partnership, collaboration, and knowledge exchange. Both universities recognized the importance of continuous dialogue and capacity-building efforts in enhancing their respective GAD programs. This shared commitment underscores their mutual aspiration to institutionalize gender-responsive practices, empower stakeholders, and contribute meaningfully to the broader national agenda on gender equality and social transformation. ( by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU produces 4 topnotchers in September 2025 Psychometricians Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/cvsu-produces-4-topnotchers-in-september-2025-psychometricians-licensure-exam/ | 2025-10-03 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new Registered Psychometricians. 

 A total of 271 examinees from the CvSU's Main, Bacoor, General Trias, Imus, Silang, Tanza, and Trece Martires City campuses hurdled the recently held September 2025 Psychometricians Licensure Examination with a national passing rate of 86.99%. 

 Four CvSUeños also made it to the top 10 successful examinees: Julianne Corrine R. Gerong (Main Campus), Jessica Viel S. Pastorfide (Tanza Campus), and Ralf Josua A. Reñeva (General Trias Campus) at 6th place with 88.40%; and Krishia Marie V. Tabogon (Main Campus) at 8th place with 88.00% passing percentage. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/september-2025-psychometricians-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawNLM11leHRuA2FlbQIxMABicmlkETFmcng3aDZGb0ZDQ1NjY2ZvAR76lYmLL-6Si5xDfoN0Ef-E7ijQ0XvH8GhQKHdBECZhp1q9FHDEicJw8H7S5g_aem_taRRoc5wcIqh35Qi0jbqDw

----- DOC | Stakeholders' Meeting with Barangay Kayquit II | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/10/stakeholders-meeting-with-barangay-kayquit-ii/ | 2025-10-02 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) held a Stakeholders' Meeting on September 30, 2025, at the GADRC Training Room, Indang, Cavite. 

 The activity began with the distribution of community needs assessment questionnaires, facilitated by GADRC personnel, who also provided a detailed discussion to ensure participants' understanding. 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat presented and interpreted the results of the Community Needs Assessment conducted among the residents of Brgy. Kayquit II, highlighting key challenges and priorities in livelihood, health and wellness, peace and order, and family development. She also outlined proposed projects and activities to address these concerns, emphasizing collaboration between GADRC and barangay stakeholders to ensure relevance, inclusivity, and sustainability. 

 

 During the open forum, Mr. Isaias Banaag raised concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of the proposed initiatives. Ms. Estebat assured that both GADRC and the barangay stakeholders would share accountability in maintaining the Programs, Activities, and Projects (PAPs) through continuous coordination, monitoring, and shared ownership. Stakeholders also expressed the need for additional educational discussions on peace and order and responsible parenthood. 

 In response, the GADRC committed to strengthening inter-college collaboration within CvSU by engaging various colleges to lead and implement programs and activities that will be further discussed and refined in subsequent meetings. The University, through the GADRC, in partnership with the stakeholders of Brgy. Kayquit II, will jointly implement the identified community development initiatives. Through sustained coordination, capacity building, and participatory engagement, this partnership aims to foster inclusive growth, enhance community empowerment, and promote long-term social development within Brgy. Kayquit II. (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU recognized by Philippine Commission on Women for Exemplary Gender and Development Budget Utilization | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-recognized-by-philippine-commission-on-women-for-exemplary-gender-and-development-budget-utilization/ | 2025-09-30 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) once again brought pride and honor to the institution after being recognized by the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW) as one of the government entities that demonstrated exceptional commitment in allocating and utilizing its 2024 Gender and Development (GAD) Budget to promote gender equality and women's empowerment. 

 The PCW commended CvSU for its consistent efforts in advancing gender-responsive governance and acknowledged the University's outstanding performance in implementing its GAD programs, projects, and activities. 

 In recognition of this achievement, the PCW invited CvSU to attend a recognition gathering of agencies that excelled in the 2024 GAD Budget implementation. Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the Gender and Development Resource Center, and Mr. King David J. Agreda, NGRP Batch 9 member and President of MOVE KATROPA, received the said award during the event held on September 25, 2025. 

 CvSU garnered notable rankings under two major categories: 

 Rank 2: State University and College (SUC) with the Highest Client-Focused GAD Budget Allocation 

 Rank 10: State University and College (SUC) with the Highest Organization-Focused GAD Budget Allocation 

 These distinctions affirm CvSU's continuing leadership and unwavering dedication to ensuring that gender equality and inclusivity remain integral components of institutional development. The University's GAD initiatives reflect strong alignment with national efforts to empower women and promote equitable participation across all sectors. 

 The PCW expressed confidence that this recognition will further inspire CvSU to sustain its momentum and continue strengthening its gender-responsive programs and budgetary practices in the years ahead. 

 This milestone stands as a testament to CvSU's steadfast commitment to excellence, inclusivity, and the advancement of gender and development in higher education. (by Lynnette M. Tecson)

----- DOC | CvSU holds Women in Leadership Forum in celebration of inclusive governance | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-holds-women-in-leadership-forum-in-celebration-of-inclusive-governance/ | 2025-09-23 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), successfully conducted the Women in Leadership Forum on September 18, 2025, at the S.M. Rolle Hall, CvSU, Indang Cavite, with simultaneous livestreaming via Facebook. 

 This undertaking formed part of the investiture celebration of Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro as the University's fourth president, carrying the theme “Celebrating a Milestone: Women's Leadership and Inclusive Governance in Higher Education.” 

 The activity formally opened with the welcome message of Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development, who underscored the critical role of women in leadership and their capacity to deliver meaningful contributions to governance and education. This was followed by the introduction of the keynote speaker by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the GADRC. 

 

 The keynote address was delivered by Dr. Renifer R. Francisco, President of the Gender Empowerment Consultancy and Advocacy Firm and member of the Philippine Commission on Women NGRP Pool – Batch 4. In her address, Dr. Francisco highlighted the indispensable role of women in advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) while also noting persistent barriers such as gender stereotypes, unconscious bias, unequal opportunities, and limited access to mentorship. She emphasized the need for inclusive leadership practices that promote equitable pay, flexible work arrangements, mentorship and sponsorship, and policies that ensure gender-responsive and enabling environments in higher education institutions. 

 Furthermore, Dr. Francisco stressed that fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion is not only essential to institutional productivity and innovation but also central to building workplaces that value harmony, accountability, and respect. She noted that such goals require concrete strategies and consistent commitment from all leaders. 

 The forum also served as a platform to recognize the contributions of women leaders who have championed inclusive governance, transformative education, and gender-responsive policies. It further highlighted the inspiring experiences of women who have successfully overcome institutional and societal barriers, while affirming CvSU's continuing commitment to cultivate future women leaders through relevant programs, mentoring opportunities, and gender-equitable policies in decision-making spaces. 

 With the participation of faculty members, non-academic staff, students, and external stakeholders, the activity stood as a significant milestone in CvSU's sustained efforts to advance gender equality, inclusive governance, and leadership development in higher education. (by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo) 

 Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development, delivering the welcome message 
 Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of Gender and Development Resource Center introducing the Keynote Speaker 
 Group picture of the participants 
 

 Awarding of the Certificate of Appreciation 
 Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez and Mr. King David J. Agreda as In-charge of Ceremonies

----- DOC | CvSU produces 2 topnotchers in the September 2025 Social Workers Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-produces-2-topnotchers-in-the-september-2025-social-workers-licensure-exam/ | 2025-09-16 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is among the top performing schools (with 51 or more examinees) for posting 100% passing percentage in the September 2025 Licensure Examination for Social Workers. 

 Also leading CvSU's 62 new Registered Social Workers are Ms. Zhanra Nicole S. Casalme in seventh place with 89.60% passing rate, and Ms. Gle-Anne B. Martinez in 10th place with 89.00% rating. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total 7,334 out of 9,647 examinees passed the said licensure examination given by the Board for Social Workers in September 2025. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/september-2025-licensure-examination-social-workers-results-released-three-3-working-days

----- DOC | CvSU is 3rd top performing school in August 2025 Criminologist Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-is-3rd-top-performing-school-in-august-2025-criminologist-licensure-exam/ | 2025-09-13 -----
The Cavite State University – College of Criminal Justice (CvSU – CCJ) proudly secures its place as the Top 3 Performing School in the Criminologist Licensure Examination (with 51 to 99 examinees and at least 80% passing percentage). 

 Class Sinaglaom, Class Maragtas, and Class Pinagpala achieved an impressive 96.70% passing pate in the August 2025 licensure examination with a national passing rate of 51.47%. 

 This remarkable feat is a testament to the perseverance, grit, and excellence of our future criminologists. Your CvSU-CCJ family beams with pride for your success! 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2025-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-twenty-six-26-working

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes 3rd Quarter RPEB Meeting as regional stakeholders unite to advance Population and Development Agenda in CALABARZON | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-welcomes-3rd-quarter-rpeb-meeting-as-regional-stakeholders-unite-to-advance-population-and-development-agenda-in-calabarzon/ | 2025-09-09 -----
The Commission on Population and Development Region IV-A successfully conducted the CY 2025 Third Quarter Regional Population Executive Board (RPEB) Meeting on September 4, 2025, at the Babaylan Training Room, Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), Cavite State University (CvSU), Indang, Cavite. 

 The meeting was attended by 12 Regional Line Agencies from the PhilHealth IV-A and IV-B, Department of Budget and Management, National Commission on Indigenous Peoples IV-A, National Youth Commission, Department of Agriculture Region IV-A, Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) IV-A, Department of Social Welfare and Development IV-A, FriendlyCare Foundation Inc., Department of Health IV-A, National Commission of Senior Citizens, Department of Migrant Workers, and three SUCs including CvSU, University of the Philippines – Los Baños, and Southern Luzon State University. 

 The program opened with welcome remarks from Ms. Lynnette M. Tecson of GADRC, who highlighted the significance of CvSU welcoming the meeting for the first time. She underscored the importance of collaboration and meaningful dialogue in advancing population and development initiatives. 

 Commission on Population and Development CALABARZON Regional Director Marilyn F. Ogaya followed with her message, emphasizing interagency cooperation in addressing pressing demographic and social concerns. 

 Key agenda items included updates from the previous meeting, the latest census data, adolescent health and development (AHD) statistics, consolidated outputs of the PPD-POA 2023–2028 Workshop, and preparations for upcoming initiatives. 

 PSA reported that the Philippine population had reached 112.7 million in 2024, with CALABARZON accounting for 16.93 million. Meanwhile, the AHD report highlighted declining adolescent birth rates but pointed to persisting challenges, including rising HIV cases, making CALABARZON the second highest nationwide. Interventions such as peer-support programs, intergenerational dialogues, and youth hub initiatives were presented to address these concerns. 

 The meeting also discussed outputs from the PPD-POA Workshop, which mapped strategic interventions across education, health, labor, agriculture, and social welfare, ensuring stronger interagency collaboration. 

 Updates on the Regional Information-Service Delivery Caravan for Indigenous Peoples, set for October 3 in Tanay, Rizal, were also presented. The activity aims to deliver livelihood, health, and reproductive health services to about 350 IP beneficiaries and is proposed for institutionalization as a regular interagency mechanism. 

 Further, the board was apprised of the progress in the 2025 Rafael M. Salas Kaunlarang Pantao Award (RMSKPA), with 11 LGUs from CALABARZON nominated for their efforts in localizing the POPDEV agenda. The regional awarding is scheduled on November 25, 2025, in Laguna. 

 Under other matters, members agreed to include the Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) and the National Commission of Senior Citizens (NCSC) in the RPEB roster. 

 The meeting concluded with the announcement that the 4 th Quarter RPEB Meeting will be held on December 5, 2025, in Metro Manila. ( Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | CvSU Pres. Nuestro named 2025 Most Inspiring Teacher | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-pres-nuestro-named-2025-most-inspiring-teacher/ | 2025-09-08 -----
A testament to a lifelong commitment to go above and beyond in shaping nation builders. 

 Cavite State University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro is among the 2025 Most Inspiring Teachers (MIT) of the Republic of the Philippines. 

 National youth leadership non-government organization Saceda Youth Lead (SYL) conferred this annual recognition to top 10 Filipino educators in the country for their dedication and remarkable contributions in uplifting communities and the Filipino youth. 

 Dr. Nuestro, along with this year's awardees, received honorary conferment as Profesor Ad Honorem and Vitasta Ambassador Distinction by SYL's international partner Université Henry Dunant during the awarding and formation ceremony held at the Bethel Guest House in Dumaguete City on September 5, 2025. 

 “This award recognizes educators who, through their courage, compassion, and competence, are able to mold minds and refine character. They do not only teach; they build a nation,” Dr. Dave G. Saceda, Chair and Founder of SYL, said in a statement.

----- DOC | CvSU GADRC capacitates committee for GADTimpala | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cvsu-gadrc-capacitates-committee-for-gadtimpala/ | 2025-09-05 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a workshop and consultation titled “ Capacity Building on GADTimpala: Preparing SUCs for Gender-Responsive Recognition” on September 2, 2025, via video conferencing. 

 The workshop primarily aims to capacitate the participants on the provisions of Philippine Commission on Women-Commission on Higher Education Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2025-02 and its implications for State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), while enhancing their knowledge and skills in applying the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF). It seeks to guide CvSU GADTimpala Committee in the preparation and packaging of institutional documentation for the Gender and Development Transformation Institutionalization through Mainstreaming of Programs, Agenda, Linkages and Advocacies (GADTimpala), highlighting CvSU's best practices, enabling mechanisms, and gender-responsive programs, and strengthen the roles and capacities of the CvSU GADTimpala Committee in sustaining gender mainstreaming initiatives. 

 The workshop was facilitated by Dr. Jhamie Tetz Infante-Mateo, a distinguished member of the National Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Pool Batch 2. During her presentation, Dr. Infante-Mateo provided a comprehensive review of Cavite State University's previous submissions related to the specified document. She highlighted the university's notable strengths, emphasizing key areas where it earned high points and met the standards effectively. Additionally, she identified specific entries that require further enhancement and underscored existing gaps that must be addressed. These insights aim to guide the university in refining its future submissions and strengthening its overall approach for the next application cycle. (by Lynnette M. Tecson) 

 Group picture during the Capacity Building on GADTimpala: Preparing SUCs for Gender-Responsive Recognition

----- DOC | CEMDS, CLAPP-RT tackle SUC-LGU partnerships in refresher course for re-elected Cavite officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/09/cemds-clapp-rt-tackle-suc-lgu-partnerships-in-refresher-course-for-re-elected-cavite-officials/ | 2025-09-02 -----
The College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies (CEMDS) represented Cavite State University (CvSU) at the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG)'s “Transformative Leadership for Elevated Governance: Refresher Course for Re-elected Officials,” August 18-20, 2025, at Hotel Casiana and Event Center in Tagaytay City, Cavite.  

 Participated by re-elected Mayors, Vice Mayors, and Members of the Sangguniang Panlungsod and Sangguniang Bayan in the Province of Cavite, this three-day event served as an avenue to meet with local government unit (LGU) heads, officials, key partners, and collaborators to explore ways to strengthen leadership and improve governance performance. 

 CEMDS Dean Dr. Mariel Mojica Lising (left) and CLAPP-RT Director Asst. Prof. Gener T. Cueno (right) join DILG Cavite OIC Provincial Director Marcial A. Juangco (center) 
 As part of the program, Atty. Luis Y. Llarena III, CEMDS Coordinator for External Collaboration and Linkages, representing Dr. Mariel Mojica Lising, CEMDS College Dean, tackled the role of state universities and colleges in building stronger partnerships between the academe and the local government.  

 Asst. Prof. Gener T. Cueno, Director of CvSU's Center for Leadership and Public Policy, Research and Training (CLAPP-RT), also introduced the University's initiative designed to assist LGUs in policy-making and community building. 

 

 Atty. Luis Y. Llarena III and Asst. Prof. Cueno during their presentation on SUC-LGU partnerships 
 Established in 2025, CLAPP-RT is a specialized academic and research unit of CvSU dedicated to advancing knowledge, leadership, and effective governance through rigorous research, capacity-building programs, and strategic partnerships. The Center serves as a hub for interdisciplinary collaboration among government agencies, academic institutions, industries, and civil society organizations.  

 CvSU also set up a booth to introduce the University as an LGU partner, highlight initiatives that support local governance, and showcase products such as Aguinaldo Blend Coffee and Kaong Natural Sweeteners.  

 With shared commitment and partnerships, CvSU continues to advance education, leadership, and service for transformative governance and community development. (with report and photos from CEMDS)

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers and Master Electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-registered-electrical-engineers-and-master-electricians-2/ | 2025-08-28 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) proudly congratulates the passers of the August 2025 Registered Electrical Engineers and Registered Master Electricians Licensure Examinations! 

 

 Registered Electrical Engineers 

 
 Main Campus: 94.12% (16/17) 

 Rosario Campus: 30.77% (4/13) 

 National Passing Percentage: 38.92% 

 
 

 Registered Master Electricians 

 
 Main Campus: 71.43% (5/7) 

 Rosario Campus: 100% (1/1) 

 National Passing Percentage: 70.02% 

 
 Congratulations to our new CvSU Electrical Engineers and Master Electricians! 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2025-registered-electrical-engineers-and-registered-master-electricians-licensure

----- DOC | 3 guro ng CvSU, kinilala bilang mga 2025 Natatanging Guro sa Filipino | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/3-guro-ng-cvsu-kinilala-bilang-mga-2025-natatanging-guro-sa-filipino/ | 2025-08-27 -----
Kinilala ang mga guro sa Filipino ng Cavite State University (CvSU) para sa kanilang kahusayan at integridad sa pagtataguyod at pagtuturo ng wikang pambansa. 

 Kabilang sa mga pinarangalan ng Pambansang Samahan ng mga Propesyonal at Mananaliksik sa Pilipinas Inc. (PSPPI) bilang 2025 Natatanging Guro sa Filipino-Kolehiyo sina Emeliza T. Cruz, Jennifer Silan-Hernandez, at Marilou S. Matilla, mga Katuwang na Propesor ng Departamento ng Humanidades sa ilalim ng Kolehiyo ng mga Sining at Agham ng CvSU.  

 Tinanggap ng mga guro ng CvSU ang nasabing parangal noong Agosto 24, 2025 bilang bahagi ng pagdaraos ng 2025 Pambansang Seminar at Kumperensya sa Filipino ng PSPPI na may temang “Kaganapan, Kaalaman, Pedagohiya at Praktika sa Pagtuturo ng Wika at Panitikang Filipino mula Elementarya Hanggang Kolehiyo” noong Agosto 23-25, 2025 sa Citystate Tower Hotel sa Maynila.  

 Kasabay ng kumperensiya ang naturang patimpalak kung saan dumaan sa masusing ebalwasyon ang mga nominadong guro, dalubguro, puno ng kagawaran, at propesyonal sa Pilipinas.  

 Bahagi rin ng kumperensya ang pagbasa ng papel pananaliksik nina Prop. Cruz (Historikal at Morpolohikal na Pag-aaral ng Tagalog-Indang: Panimulang Pananaliksik), Prop. Matilla (Pagbuo ng Glosaryo ng mga Katawagang Ginagamit sa Pagkokopra sa Cavite), at Prop. Hernandez (Glosaryo ng Tagalog-Indang sa Paggagawa ng Kakanin sa Indang, Cavite).

----- DOC | CvSU GADRC conducts “EQuality Online: It's Safe Space Time” webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/cvsu-gadrc-conducts-equality-online-its-safe-space-time-webinar/ | 2025-08-21 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted a webinar titled “ EQuality Online: It's Safe Space Time !” on August 19, 2025, via Video Conferencing and Facebook livestreaming. 

 This webinar aims to raise awareness on gender-based online risks and highlight the importance of creating inclusive, respectful, and safe digital environments. It also seeks to educate participants on relevant laws and policies that protect individuals from gender-based online harassment and discrimination. Furthermore, the activity intends to promote digital citizenship practices that are gender-responsive, ethical, and socially responsible, while encouraging participants to become advocates for gender equality and digital safety within their communities and across various online platforms. 

 

 Ms. Emeline C. Guevarra, Director of the Information and Communication Technology Office (ICTO), warmly welcomed the participants and expressed her sincere appreciation for their presence. She underscored the relevance and urgency of the session's theme, noting that in today's increasingly connected world, it is crucial to address the challenges and responsibilities that come with our digital interactions. 

 Ms. Guevarra highlighted the importance of making online spaces not only accessible, but also safe, respectful, and inclusive for all individuals. She stressed that as technology continues to evolve, so must our efforts to cultivate environments—both virtual and physical—where everyone feels valued, heard, and protected. She encouraged the participants to actively engage with the session, as it serves as a vital step toward building a culture that upholds digital dignity and mutual respect. 

 

 Mr. John Vandrick A. Diaz, Provincial Cybersecurity & PNPKI Focal Person DICT – Cavite discussed the first topic titled “Click Responsibly: Promoting Ethical and Inclusive Online Behavior.” In his discussion, he defined cybersecurity as the practices and technologies designed to safeguard networks, devices, and personal information from unauthorized access, attacks, and damage. In today's digital world, cybersecurity has become more important than ever. As we increasingly rely on the internet for communication, shopping, banking, education, and work, protecting our data and online presence has become a critical concern. 

 Mr. Diaz reiterated that to stay safe online, it is essential to develop and practice safe online habits. The impact of poor cybersecurity can be severe. Victims may face financial loss, damage to their reputation, or even emotional distress. For companies, a security breach can lead to loss of customer trust, legal consequences, and operational downtime. As digital threats continue to evolve, so must our efforts to protect ourselves. 

 

 The second topic, “Safe Spaces in the Digital World: RA 11313 (Safe Spaces Act),” was presented by Ms. Ethel Joy Aryhen Regondula, a faculty member from the College of Criminal Justice (CCJ). She opened her discussion by introducing the policy declaration of Republic Act No. 11313, also known as the Safe Spaces Act. 

 Ms. Regondula emphasized Section 4, which defines Gender-Based Sexual Harassment in Streets and Public Spaces. She explained that such acts involve any unwanted and uninvited sexual actions or remarks made toward any person, regardless of the perpetrator's motive. These actions—considered “bastos” or inappropriate under the law—are punishable offenses, underscoring the importance of respectful behavior in both physical and digital public spaces. She said that promoting a safe and respectful digital space begins with practicing respectful communication, avoiding offensive language, jokes, and content. 

 

 To formally conclude the webinar, Mr. Mel Gabriel M. Talon, GAD Coordinator from ICTO encouraged the participants that educating others about digital safety and responsible behavior helps foster a more inclusive and respectful online environment. 

 The webinar served as an essential platform for knowledge exchange and collaborative engagement among students and faculty from various disciplines. Cybersecurity is a shared responsibility in the digital age. By understanding online threats, adopting safe habits, and staying informed, we can reduce our risks and help create a safer internet for everyone. (by Lynnette M. Tecson) 

 Picture taken during open forum (Ms. Ethel Joy Aryhen Regondula – top left, Mr. Lougi Arayata – top right, Mr. John Vandrick A. Diaz – middle) 
 Group picture during the seminar on EQuality Online: It's Safe Space Time!

----- DOC | CvSU is 6th top performing school in August 2025 MedTech Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/cvsu-is-6th-top-performing-school-in-august-2025-medtech-licensure-exam/ | 2025-08-21 -----
Congratulations to Cavite State University's (CvSU) new Registered Medical Technologists! 

 The University ranked sixth among the performing schools (with 50 or more examinees) in the August 2025 Medical Technologists Licensure Examination (MTLE) with an overall performance rating of 93.75% (75/80). 

 CvSU's new Registered Medical Technologists joined 3,360 out of 4,719 examinees who passed the August 2025 MTLE with a national passing rate of 71.20% 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2025-medical-technologists-licensure-examination-results-released-five-5-working

----- DOC | Building a positive climate through psychological safety and diversity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/building-a-positive-climate-through-psychological-safety-and-diversity/ | 2025-08-18 -----
Creating a positive and inclusive academic environment is vital for fostering collaboration, innovation, and the overall well-being of students, faculty, and staff. To address the challenges encountered inside the work or academic environment, the Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) team lead by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina- Dela Cruz, successfully conducted the webinar “Building a Positive Climate through Psychological Safety and Diversity,” held on August 14, 2025 via Zoom Conferencing and Facebook livestream. 

 The webinar aims to emphasize the importance of psychological safety and inclusive practices in creating a positive learning and working environment while promoting behaviors that uphold Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) to foster a strong sense of belonging within the institution. It also seeks to equip participants with practical strategies to build trust, empathy, and open dialogue among students, faculty, and staff. Furthermore, the activity encourages the co-creation of actionable steps to integrate psychological safety and DEl principles into daily interactions and institutional culture. In alignment with legal mandates, it also promotes adherence to Republic Act 6713 by cultivating ethical conduct, accountability, and respect for the rights and dignity of every individual within the university. 

 

 Ms. Abigail S. Cruz, Director of the Human Resource Development Office, formally opened the program by highlighting the significance of creating a conducive and safe environment inside the workplace. She also mentioned that an organization built with psychological safety creates innovative solutions, collaborations, and continuous improvement and trust, but psychological safety could be more meaningful if we also embrace the diversity in all its forms. Everyone will encourage vulnerability and build resilience teams that thrives openness and respect if we value inclusion and a sense of safety. She strongly emphasized that we must uphold the integrity, professionalism, and respect for human dignity in the name of public service. 

 

 The webinar proper commenced with the first topic titled “Psychological Safety” delivered by Ms. Gabby Llamzon, Learning and Development Associate from Positive Workplaces. This was followed by the discussion on “Diversity in the Institution” by Ms. Rosina Jose, Business Development Officer, also from Positive Workplaces. These two themes were closely interconnected, both emphasizing the importance of cultivating inclusive and supportive environments within organizations. 

 

 To start the session, the speakers facilitated a simple yet thoughtful check-in activity, allowing participants to acknowledge and share the various emotions they were experiencing that day. This initial exercise helped set a safe and empathetic tone for the rest of the webinar. 

 Throughout the session, a range of interactive activities were introduced using various digital tools that allowed participants to engage actively with the topics. Notably, the levelling sessions encouraged open dialogue between participants and the speakers, enabling them to express insights and perspectives while learning practical ways to foster psychological safety in their own institutions. 

 

 For the third topic “Republic Act No. 6713: Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees,” Atty. Nielraz D. Lirazan, Attorney VI from the Legal Services Division of the Civil Service Commission – Regional Office IV, began his presentation with an overview of the key principles and objectives of RA 6713, a law that outlines the norms of conduct and ethical standards expected from all individuals in government service. 

 He emphasized that public office is a public trust, and that all government officials and employees are duty-bound to uphold the highest standards of honesty, integrity, and professionalism in the performance of their duties. According to Atty. Lirazan, every government decision and action must be guided by a commitment to promote the general welfare of the public, but always within the legal and ethical boundaries established by the law. 

 Moreover, he highlighted the eight norms of conduct enshrined in the Act—commitment to public interest, professionalism, justness and sincerity, political neutrality, responsiveness to the public, nationalism and patriotism, commitment to democracy, and simple living—stressing that these serve as a moral compass for public servants in the execution of their responsibilities. 

 Through his insightful discussion, Atty. Lirazan effectively underscored the importance of ethical governance in building public trust and ensuring that government service remains transparent, accountable, and genuinely responsive to the needs of the people. 

 To formally conclude the program, Prof. Betsy Rose S. Fidel, the GAD Coordinator from the College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies, expressed her sincere appreciation to all the participants for their active involvement and enthusiastic participation throughout the session. Prof. Fidel acknowledged the valuable insights shared by the esteemed resource speaker, whose expertise significantly contributed to the success of the event. In her message, she emphasized the vital role of creating and sustaining a positive workplace environment—one that promotes respect, inclusivity, and mutual support among colleagues. She noted that such an environment not only enhances productivity but also contributes to the overall well-being and satisfaction of employees. Prof. Fidel concluded by encouraging everyone to apply the knowledge gained during the session in their respective institutions and to continue supporting initiatives that promote gender equality and professional growth. (by Lynnette M. Tecson) 

 Photo during the open forum (Atty. Nielraz Lirazan- top left, Ms. Rosina Jose- top right, Ms. Gabby Llamzon- bottom left, and Ms. Thea Maries Perez- bottom right) 
 Photo opportunity with the resource speakers and participants

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's newly licensed Food Technologists | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/congratulations-to-cvsus-newly-licensed-food-technologists/ | 2025-08-16 -----
Cavite State University posted a 51.61% passing rate (16 out of 31 examinees) in the recently held August 2025 Food Technologists Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 586 out of 931 (63.01%) hurdled the said licensure examination given by the Board of Food Technology in N. C. R., Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian and Rosales this August 2025. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2025-food-technologists-computer-based-licensure-examination-results-released

----- DOC | Regional Gender and Development Committee convenes 2nd Semester 2025 Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/regional-gender-and-development-committee-convenes-2nd-semester-2025-meeting/ | 2025-08-14 -----
The Regional Gender and Development Committee (RGADC) convened its 2nd Semester 2025 Meeting on August 12, 2025, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon at the RDC Hall, NEDA Region IV-A Building, Barangay Milagrosa, Calamba City. 

 The meeting was presided over by OIC-ARD Michael R. Lavadia, with RGADC members and representatives in attendance. The discussions covered updates on matters from the previous meeting, particularly on pending requests for GAD statistics and informal sector data from the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA); the recent GFPS Functionality Assessment Training conducted last June; and the launching of the CALABARZON GAD Agenda 2025–2030 during the 2025 Regional Women's Month Celebration. 

 Strengthening the region's pool of GAD experts, nine applicants were also confirmed as part of the CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool (Batch 3), including Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, Faculty Member of the College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies. 

 Preparations for the 12th Regional GAD Convention set in November 2025 were approved, featuring plenary sessions, cultural presentations, and exhibits. The Committee also approved the FY 2026 RGADC Work Plan, which outlines key activities including the Regional Women's Month Celebration in Cavite and several capacity-building initiatives. 

 Another major decision was the non-renewal of the PCW-RGADC Partnership Agreement as the intended outcomes of the 2021–2024 partnership had been achieved and RGADC has built institutional capacity to operate independently. Still, PCW will continue providing guidance and support. The proposed CGRP Directory was also endorsed for submission to the RDC to enhance accessibility of certified GAD experts in CALABARZON. 

 For information, University of the Philippines Los Baños announced its First Gender and Development Research Conference on October 27, 2025, with the theme “Championing Change: Gender Initiatives for a Transformative Academic Culture Towards a Sustainable and Resilient Future.” Twenty slots were allotted for RGADC members. Reports on the First Semester 2025 Activities were also presented, highlighting the successful conduct of the Regional Women's Month Celebration and the GFPS Training. 

 Finally, the membership request of the Coast Guard District Southern Tagalog was noted but deferred until the 2026 reorganization meeting. ( by Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo)

----- DOC | Tarlac State University holds benchmarking activity at CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/tarlac-state-university-holds-benchmarking-activity-at-cvsu/ | 2025-08-13 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) and in partnership with CvSU MOVE KATROPA, formally welcomed delegates from Tarlac State University's (TSU) Office of Gender and Development (OGAD) and MOVE KATROPA for a benchmarking activity held last August 11, 2025. 

 

 The event, led by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the GADRC, served as a dynamic platform for fostering collaboration, exchanging expertise, and reinforcing commitments to gender-responsive development. 

 Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC staff, showcased CvSU's best practices anchored on the Philippine Commission on Women's (PCW) four entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework—serving as the institutional blueprint for gender mainstreaming. She also outlined the university policies that reinforced GADRC initiatives, enabling mechanisms that foster stakeholder's engagement, and implemented programs, activities, and projects promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion across the university. 

 

 A key highlight of the program was the open forum, where both universities engaged in substantive dialogue on the proper utilization of the GAD budget; the integration of GAD in research, extension, and infrastructure through the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG) tool; embedding GAD perspectives into the curriculum; and adopting gender-affirmative uniforms for students. These discussions translated institutional mandates into concrete and actionable strategies. 

 

 Further enriching the exchange, Dr. Dela Cruz together with Asst. Prof. King David J. Agreda, President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA (NGRP); Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Head of the Training and Courseware Development Division, Extension Services (CGRP); and Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, Mr. Richard P. Perez and Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, CvSU MOVE KATROPA officers, in presenting the University's gender advocacy initiatives, enabling mechanisms, and implementation strategies. 

 The activity concluded with a renewed sense of purpose, as both institutions reaffirmed their shared commitment to champion gender equality and inclusive development. In her closing remarks, Dr. Dela Cruz emphasized that “Gender and Development is not the work of a few—it is the collective responsibility of the entire University.” ( by Ellaine E. Todoc)

----- DOC | CvSU- GADRC held it's Cascading Session cum Second Quarter GAD TWG Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/cvsu-gadrc-held-its-cascading-session-cum-second-quarter-gad-twg-meeting/ | 2025-08-13 -----
Cavite State University, through Gender and Development Resource Center, headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina – Dela Cruz, successfully conducted the Cascading Session cum Second Quarter GAD TWG Meeting on August 11, 2025 at Babaylan Training Room. 

 This activity aims to cascade updates on gender mainstreaming to ensure informed and capable dissemination within campus, college, and units; and assess past gender mainstreaming efforts and align activities with institutional and national priorities. The event also shared the key learnings and reflections from the recently concluded Women Empowerment and Leadership in Agriculture (WELA) 2025 and use these insights as a foundation for preparing and aligning institutional initiatives with the goals of WELA 2026. 

 The meeting also sought to develop action plans focused on addressing gender-specific challenges and promoting inclusivity, and integrate the GAD TW Meeting to further strengthen the GAD mainstreaming initiatives of respective campus, college, and unit within the university. 

 

 The meeting began with the presentation of the Director's Report by Dr. Dela Cruz where she highlighted various activities and programs attended and participated by the GADRC in the last quarter. 

 This was followed by the presentation of Accomplishment Report of the conducted activities of the college, campus, and units, Plan of Activities for the next quarter, and 2026 GAD Plan and Budget discussed by GAD Coordinators from various colleges, campuses, and units. ( by Lynnette M. Tecson) 

 

 

 Photo of the participants during the Cascading Session cum Second Quarter GAD TWG Meeting

----- DOC | Nourishing Bonds: Promoting shared support for breastfeeding | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/nourishing-bonds-promoting-shared-support-for-breastfeeding/ | 2025-08-11 -----
In celebration of Breastfeeding Awareness Month, Cavite State University (CvSU) – Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar titled: “ Nourishing Bonds: Promoting Shared Support for Breastfeeding ” on August 6, 2025 held via Facebook live and video conferencing. 

 The activity aims to encourage shared responsibility between mothers, fathers, and caregivers in the breastfeeding journey; provide evidence-based information on breastfeeding techniques, overcoming challenges, and building a support network; create a supportive environment for breastfeeding by addressing social and workplace barriers; and inform participants about their rights and responsibilities regarding breastfeeding under Philippine Law. 

 

 To formally open the program, Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of the CvSU – College of Nursing, emphasized the importance of empowering and encouraging mothers to embrace breastfeeding, underscoring that it is not solely the mother's responsibility. She said that breastfeeding is a shared responsibility—one that involves families, communities, and institutions alike. Dr. Del Mundo highlighted that everyone has a role to play in supporting breastfeeding by promoting awareness, providing encouragement, and strengthening the support system for lactating mothers. 

 

 The first two topics, titled “Introduction to Breastfeeding, Shared Responsibility and Building a Breastfeeding Support Network” and “Overcoming Challenges,” were delivered by Ms. Maria Khristina C. Huerto, RM. In her discussion, she began by addressing various myths that commonly misinform the community about breastfeeding. She then shared factual and evidence-based information that participants need to understand to effectively support breastfeeding mothers. Ms. Huerto highlighted the importance of breastfeeding and its wide-ranging health benefits—not only for infants but also for mothers. She emphasized that protecting, promoting, and supporting breastfeeding goes beyond simply providing nutrition; it is an act of nurturing, bonding, and building resilience. She further underscored the idea that breastfeeding is a powerful advocacy, one that contributes significantly to maternal and child well-being. Her message was clear: breastfeeding should be TSEK — T ama, S apat, at Eksklusibo (Right, Enough, and Exclusive). She also discussed various breastfeeding programs and support networks available at both the local and national levels. 

 As part of her talk, she offered practical solutions and supportive strategies to the common challenges that breastfeeding mothers often face, such as latching difficulties, pumping and milk storage concerns, and transitioning back to work. Ms. Huerto strongly emphasized that breastfeeding is a right, not a privilege, and reminded participants that it is a journey, not a pursuit of perfection. She concluded with a heartfelt message: “Sa bawat patak ng gatas, may lakas at pag-ibig na kasama.” 

 

 The third topic, titled “Legal Rights and Responsibilities (RA 10028 and Executive Order No. 51),” was discussed by Ms. Blessie Mae M. Satur, RM. In her presentation, she thoroughly explained the legal frameworks that uphold and protect the rights of breastfeeding mothers, particularly Republic Act No. 10028 or the Expanded Breastfeeding Promotion Act of 2009, and Executive Order No. 51, also known as the Philippine Milk Code. Ms. Satur emphasized the significant benefits of breastfeeding, not only for the health and development of infants but also for the well-being of mothers. She highlighted key provisions of the laws that support breastfeeding, such as the establishment of lactation stations in workplaces, paid lactation breaks, and protection against unethical marketing of breastmilk substitutes. 

 Furthermore, she stressed that support for breastfeeding should extend beyond healthcare settings, and that workplaces and other institutions have a critical role to play in enabling mothers to continue breastfeeding. By creating breastfeeding-friendly environments and implementing policies aligned with national laws, organizations can contribute meaningfully to this public health advocacy. 

 

 To formally close the program, Ms. Lei Anne B. Rupido, GAD Alternate from the CON, gratefully extended her appreciation to the esteemed resource speakers on empowering the advocacy for breastfeeding and giving significant and valuable insights to the participants. She emphasized that breastfeeding is not just a personal journey, but a public health priority. Ms. Rupido encouraged the participants to be an advocate and to support breastfeeding not just in our home, but also in our workplaces and community. (by Lynnette M. Tecson) 

 Lynnette Tecson (top left) moderator, Ms. Maria Khristina C. Huerto (top right) and Ms. Blessie Mae Satur (bottom middle) the resource speakers during the open forum

----- DOC | From Plans to Progress: Institutionalizing GAD Attribution in University Operations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/08/from-plans-to-progress-institutionalizing-gad-attribution-in-university-operations/ | 2025-08-05 -----
In pursuit of addressing the need to enhance the capacities of personnel in effectively attributing and integrating gender and development (GAD) in their respective Programs, Projects, and Activities (PPAs), the Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) headed by Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina- Dela Cruz successfully conducted an in- person seminar titled “From Plans to Progress: Institutionalizing GAD Attribution in University Operations” on July 30, 2025 at the Babaylan Training Room. 

 The activity aims to enhance the knowledge and understanding of designated personnel from various colleges, campuses, and units regarding the 5% GAD attribution requirement and its integration into the Office Performance Commitment and Review (OPCR). It also seeks to build the capability of these units to design and implement gender-responsive PPAs that align with both institutional and national GAD priorities. 

 Furthermore, the event intends to promote consistency, accuracy, and accountability in GAD planning, budgeting, and reporting across all academic and administrative units, while fostering a deeper appreciation for gender mainstreaming as a strategic approach to achieving inclusive and equitable governance within the University system. 

 

 To formally open the program, Ms. Janet L. Rodriguez, GAD Coordinator from CCAT Campus, delivered her opening remarks where she mentioned the significance of integrating GAD into various PPAs. She emphasized that the attribution shall not only be part of compliance but also, make it institutionalized in the university operation. 

 

 This was followed by Ms. Razelle Astudillo, in- charge of ceremonies, who presented the rationale and objectives of the activity. 

 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, CvSU GAD Resource Pool, discussed the first topic “Gender Mainstreaming in Philippine Public Higher Education Institutions: Promoting Inclusive and Equitable Academic Communities” which included a series of workshop activities that helped GAD Coordinators and Budget officers to properly align their PPAs with their allocated budget. 

 The workshop activities included the identification of sex- disaggregated data of the faculty and staff that may be involved in the PPAs, classification of existing clients being catered, and presentation of their offices' activities and programs. 

 

 Moreover, part of the participants' training workshop application and output was the review and revision of their respective GAD Planning and Budgeting for the fiscal year 2026 which will be submitted to the GAD Resource Center on August 8 and will be discussed and presented further on August 11, 2025. 

 

 To formally conclude the program, Ms. Lady Joane B. Herrera delivered her closing remarks and grateful acknowledgement to the center for conducting the training and workshop that have capacitated and enhanced the ability of GAD Coordinators and Budget Officers. She also extended her appreciation to the resource person who warmly presented, discussed, and elaborated the topic in relation to institutionalizing GAD attribution in university operations.

----- DOC | IN PHOTOS: Sen. Pangilinan meets with CvSU, Indang LGU officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/in-photos-sen-pangilinan-meets-with-cvsu-indang-lgu-officials/ | 2025-07-31 -----
Sen. Francis “Kiko” N. Pangilinan, Chairperson of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Food, and Agrarian Reform, met with the key officials and staff of Cavite State University (CvSU) and the Municipal Government of Indang for the “Institutionalizing Innovation” luncheon meeting at CvSU on July 31, 2025.

----- DOC | Strengthening GAD: Mainstreaming Gender-Responsive Approaches in Extension and Infrastructure Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/strengthening-gad-mainstreaming-gender-responsive-approaches-in-extension-and-infrastructure-programs/ | 2025-07-31 -----
Cavite State University, through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), successfully concluded the two-day workshop titled “Strengthening GAD: Mainstreaming Gender-Responsive Approaches in Extension and Infrastructure Programs,” July 28-29, 2025 at the CvSU GADRC Babaylan Training Room. 

 

 The workshop convened Extension Coordinators from various colleges, campuses, and units to build their capacity in integrating gender perspectives into their respective programs, projects and activities. 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda (NGRP Batch 9 and CvSU MOVE KATROPA president) served as the resource speaker and emphasized the use of the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG) Tool as a strategic instrument in planning and implementing gender-responsive extension initiatives. 

 

 Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, Director of Extension Services, delivered the opening message, encouraging participants to actively engage and apply gender-responsive principles in their extension initiatives. 

 

 The first day of training workshop concluded with a closing message from Mr. Joselito F. Ersando, Head of the Monitoring and Evaluation Division of Extension Services, who reiterated the significance of embedding a gender lens in the design of inclusive and impactful development programs. 

 Day 1 Photo opportunity with the participants 
 

 During the second whole day session, Engr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes, Director of the Project Management Office, delivered his opening remarks where he mentioned the significant use of HGDG in the various infrastructure and university operations, attributing it to the allocated budget. 

 

 Mr. Agreda also emphasized the use of the HGDG checklist on infrastructure. During the session, he facilitated the same approach of activity given on the first day but utilizing the sector-specific checklist of HGDG. He discussed how to properly score the infrastructure using HGDG, and reviewed the participants' outputs and score based on the HGDG sector- specific checklist. 

 

 To formally conclude the second day of the training, Engr. Lordley Abellar delivered the closing remarks on behalf of Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, Director of Planning Office. He mentioned how valuable the training was to comply and apply this relevant training to the projects and university operation. 

 Day 2 Photo opportunity with the participants

----- DOC | CvSU GSOLC offers graduate programs under CHED-SIKAP | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/cvsu-gsolc-offers-graduate-programs-under-ched-sikap/ | 2025-07-29 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Graduate School and Open Learning College (GSOLC) is now a Delivering Higher Education Institution (DHEI) for the Commission on Higher Education (CHED)'s scholarship program for teaching and non-teaching personnel. 

 CHED's Scholarships for Instructors' Knowledge Advancement Program (SIKAP) is open to eligible teaching and non-teaching personnel employed in higher education institutions seeking to pursue advanced studies in identified DHEIs including CvSU.  

 Among the CvSU GSOLC programs covered under the SIKAP grant are: 

 Doctor of Philosophy in Education major in Educational Management  

 Master of Arts in Education major in Educational Management  

 Master of Arts in Education major in Biology  

 Master of Arts in Education major in Mathematics  

 Master of Arts in Education major in Curriculum and Instruction  

 Master of Science in Biology 

 As the University continues its commitment to inclusive, accessible, and quality graduate education, CvSU GSOLC's inclusion in the official list of DHEIs for the CHED SIKAP marks a significant opportunity for students and professionals seeking advanced studies through government-supported initiatives. 

 SIKAP scholars are entitled to receive financial privileges and incentives covering tuition and other fees, stipend, and research allowance. 

 Interested applicants may visit https://ched.gov.ph/sikap/ for more information on the CHED SIKAP grant.

----- DOC | CvSU ascends to the top at RAATI 2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/cvsu-ascends-to-the-top-at-raati-2025/ | 2025-07-29 -----
Cavite State University Main Campus was hailed champion in the Regional Annual Administrative Tactical Inspection (RAATI) 2025 during the awarding and closing ceremony held at Camp General Mateo Capinpin in Tanay, Rizal on July 25, 2025. 

 With an impressive score of 98.06%, the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) Unit of the CvSU Main Campus outperformed 24 other participating colleges and universities to emerge as the champion in the area of responsibility of the 4th Regional Community Defense Group, Reserve Command, Philippine Army (4RCDG RESCOM, PA).  

 Following the RAATI conducted on May 24, the Unit ranked eighth among the 555 ROTC units in the Philippines.  

 Meanwhile, CvSU CCAT Campus is also among the participating units in the top spot after securing fifth place with a score of 92.93%. 

 During the annual RAATI, the RESCOM PA assesses the administrative efficiency, training management, military proficiency, and training quality of ROTC units of various colleges and universities across the region. 

 Receiving the award on behalf of the CvSU Main ROTC Unit were Ms. Sharon M. Isip, Dean of the Office of Student Affairs and Services and Overall National Service Training Program Coordinator; Col Ciriaco A. Lomas-e GSC (INF) PA, 402nd Director; Maj Eugene G. Espino (INF) PA, Commandant; Ms. Kristine Joy E. Sierra, Head of Research, Monitoring, and Evaluation of Student Services and Culture and the Arts; and ROTC Cadet officers including Corps Commander C/Col Kathleen Joyce C. del Mundo and Battalion Staff Members C/LTC Ma. Ronna Mae C. Puda and C/LTC Julie L. Quimson.

----- DOC | CvSU secures 280th spot in WURI 2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/cvsu-secures-280th-spot-in-wuri-2025/ | 2025-07-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) ranked 280 in the 2025 World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI) Global Top 400 Innovative Universities. 

 The University is among the 1,253 participating higher education institutions from 87 countries assessed by the WURI using 16 categories encompassing their innovative and creative contributions to education, research, and society.  

 For this year, CvSU's innovative programs were included in the top 100 for the following categories: 41st in student mobility and openness (A2), 15th in crisis management (A5), and 29th in infrastructure/technologies (B6). 

 CvSU made its debut in the WURI in 2024, making it among top 100 universities in culture/values and crisis management categories.  

 This remarkable achievement highlights the CvSU community's steadfast dedication and commitment to enhancing the quality of education, strengthening community and social responsibility, nurturing sustainable innovations, and marking the University's presence in the global scene.

----- DOC | 25th Midyear Convention on Cancer Advocacy held | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/25th-midyear-convention-on-cancer-advocacy-held/ | 2025-07-15 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), Office of the Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Officer (OPPDAO), and the Philippine Society of Oncologists, Inc. (PSO) have successfully partnered to drive impactful health advocacies during the convention held last July 11, 2025, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 

 With the theme “EPIC: E mpowering P eople through I ntegrated C ompassionate Cancer Care,” the event aimed at advancing cancer awareness and fostering a holistic, whole-of-nation intervention. 

 In a concerted effort to strengthen cancer advocacy, the convention successfully brought together a diverse group of stakeholders, including barangay health workers, primary care physicians, nurses, allied health professionals, local government health leaders, cancer advocates, patient representatives, and oncologists. As part of the initiative, advocacy kits and booths containing educational materials and essential health tools were also distributed to participants to aid in grassroots information dissemination and early detection efforts. This event highlighted the importance of a multidisciplinary and community-centered approach in addressing cancer care and awareness. 

 

 

 During the event, the CvSU GADRC was honored with a plaque of appreciation in recognition of its unwavering support, active partnership, and meaningful collaboration. This recognition also highlighted GADRC's ongoing commitment under its existing Memorandum of Agreement with the involved offices, further reinforcing the value of academic-community linkages in advancing public health initiatives.

----- DOC | Procurement Monitoring Report 2025 1st Semester | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/procurement-monitoring-report-2025-1st-semester/ | 2025-07-10 -----
CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – F164 & F101) Submission of FY 2025 1st SEM PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – IGP's F-161, F163 & TRUST) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Alternative Mode – Projects) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Goods) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Main Campus (Public Bidding – Infra) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Naic Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Alternative Mode) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR 

 CvSU Rosario Campus (Public Bidding) Submission of FY 2025 1st Sem PMR

----- DOC | GADRC leads 2026 GAD Planning and Budgeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/gadrc-leads-2026-gad-planning-and-budgeting/ | 2025-07-10 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) has successfully conducted the two-day 2026 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop on July 8-9, 2025 at the CvSU Babaylan Training Room. 

 The workshop aims to enhance the knowledge and skills of all GAD Coordinators and Budget Officers in preparing their respective GAD Plan and Budget (GPB); identify programs, projects, and activities as well as the resources that will address gender issues to support the function and operational needs of the university; and enhance the awareness of the participants in valuing the GAD program as a tool in developing a highly gender responsive university. 

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, NGRP Batch 9 and President of the CvSU MOVE KATROPA, led the “Orientation on the Guidelines on the Preparation of the GAD Plan and Budget.” 

 Mr. Agreda emphasized the vital role of integrating GAD into the university's programs, projects, and activities. This process ensures that all organizational efforts align with GAD principles, thereby promoting fairness and addressing gender-related concerns across all levels of university operations. 

 Mr. Agreda further emphasized the importance of not only identifying priority gender issues and selecting programs and activities, but also of evaluating their gender responsiveness. He highlighted the utilization of the key assessment tools such as the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG) and the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF) to ensure that proposed efforts are aligned with national GAD standards and objectives. 

 

 Photos during the presentation of identified gender issue, proposed instruction, and policy 
 Through the comprehensive and participatory approach, Mr. Agreda effectively demonstrated how GAD integration can be strategically and sustainably embedded into institutional planning—grounded in real issues, guided by measurable outcomes, and supported by accountable structures. This collaborative evaluation process not only improved the quality of each GAD Plan but also promoted a deeper understanding of the strategic alignment between institutional goals. It reinforced the importance of continuous improvement, accountability, and evidence-based planning in advancing gender equality within the university setting. 

 

 Pictures of the participants on the 2026 GAD Planning and Budgeting

----- DOC | Online training on the GAD FPS GFAsT for Regional Line Agencies and SUCs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/online-training-on-the-gad-fps-gfast-for-regional-line-agencies-and-sucs/ | 2025-07-02 -----
The Regional Gender and Development Committee (RGADC) has successfully conducted a two-day Online Training on the GAD Focal Point System (GFPS) Functionality Assessment Tool (GFAsT) on June 26–27, 2025, via Zoom. 

 This capacity-building activity was specifically organized for Regional Line Agencies (RLAs) and State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) to strengthen institutional mechanisms for gender mainstreaming. 

 The training aimed to equip GFPS members with comprehensive knowledge and practical skills on the utilization of the GFAsT, a standardized tool designed to assess the functionality and effectiveness of GFPS structures within institutions. The GFAsT serves as a vital mechanism for identifying areas of improvement and ensuring that Gender and Development (GAD) mandates are efficiently implemented and monitored. 

 The virtual training featured interactive discussions, hands-on tool demonstrations, and collaborative workshops that emphasized the strategic use of the GFAsT in evaluating GAD structures. Participants were able to gain insights on best practices, common challenges, and concrete steps for enhancing the performance and accountability of their respective GFPS. 

 Among the attendees were Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) at Cavite State University (CvSU), and Ms. Kate Angeline S. Hernando, In-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation of the GADRC. Their active participation highlighted CvSU's ongoing commitment to advancing gender-responsive governance in higher education. 

 The successful conduct of this training underscores RGADC's dedication to fostering gender equality and empowering GAD focal point systems across the region through continuous education and technical support. 

 Group photo during the Online Training on the GAD Focal Point System (GFPS) Functionality Assessment Tool (GFAsT)

----- DOC | Urgency in Action: Advocating a Child-Labor-Free Future | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/07/urgency-in-action-advocating-a-child-labor-free-future/ | 2025-07-01 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a seminar titled “Urgency in Action: Advocating a Child Labor- free Future” on June 30, 2025, via Zoom and Facebook Live. 

 The primary objective of this webinar is to increase the awareness on sexual abuse and exploitation, particularly on Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (CSEC), Online Sexual Exploitation of Children (OSEC), and Child Sexual Abuse an Exploitation Materials (CSAEM); understand the definitions, legal frameworks and best practices for addressing child labor; recognize the different situations that make children vulnerable to the worst form of child labor; and clearly see their role in protecting children from exploitation. 

 Ms. Aiza E. Bihis, the GAD Coordinator of the College of Engineering and Information Technology, warmly welcomed the participants as she encouraged everyone to actively engage in and support the advocacy of eliminating child labor. She emphasized that child labor is not merely a problem – it calls for decisive action. Ms. Bihis underscored the importance of protecting children's rights and ensuring they grow up in a safe and nurturing environment. 

 Ms. Rosemarie B. Caribo, Social Welfare Officer and SHIELD Focal Person, delivered a lecture titled “Child Labor in the Philippines: A Situationer.” She introduced the Strategic Helpdesks for Information, Education, Livelihood, and other Developmental Interventions (SHIELD) – a project aimed at combating child labor. Ms. Caribo discussed the project's primary objectives and its target groups, which include child laborers, their families, local government units, and even employers of child laborers. She also elaborated on the legal foundations and key components of the SHIELD initiative. 

 The second topic titled “Worst Forms of Child Labor” was presented by Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte, Secretariat of RIACAT-VAWC IV-A. He began by defining the worst forms of child labor and explaining key concepts related to it. Mr. Villafuerte highlighted the critical features of trafficking-in-persons (TIP) laws as they relate to child labor, emphasizing that traffickers often prey on individuals from rural, conflict-affected, and impoverished communities. These individuals – including women, children, LGBTQI+ persons, indigenous peoples, and internally displaced persons (IDPs)—are frequently subjected to various forms of exploitation, such as sex trafficking, forced labor, and forced begging. Mr. Villafuerte also examined the legal framework addressing the worst forms of child labor, referencing ILO Convention 182, Section 12-D of Republic Act 9231 (Anti-Child Labor Law), and Section 4(k) of Republic Act 11862 (Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2022), among other relevant laws. Additionally, he discussed the recovery and reintegration programs for trafficked persons, as well as various projects and support services provided by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) to assist survivors and at-risk individuals. 

 The third topic, titled “Revisiting Child Labor Laws and Related Policies” was presented by Ms. Maria Angelique E. Yaun of the Technical Support and Services Division – Employment Promotions and Workers' Welfare Unit of the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) Region IV-A. She provided an overview of the legal framework governing the employment of children, along with key laws and policies aimed at preventing child labor. 

 Ms. Yaun also highlighted the various programs and advocacy initiatives led by DOLE to raise awareness and strengthen public support in the fight against child labor. She also introduced the official campaign branding developed by the National Council Against Child Labor (NCACL) and its partner advocates, namely the #BatangMalaya campaign, which unifies all child labor-related initiatives and activities under a common message. 

 To formally conclude the seminar, Mr. Marc Darrel P. Alcazar, GAD Coordinator of the College of Criminal Justice, delivered the closing message. He expressed his sincere gratitude to the organizers, resource speakers, participants, and all community members and stakeholders who took part in the timely and meaningful discussion on the fight against child labor. Mr. Alcazar emphasized that their presence signified more than mere awareness – it was a powerful act of solidarity and collective commitment to protecting the rights and well-being of children. 

 

 Group photo of the participants

----- DOC | Rafael M. Salas Kaunlarang Pantao Award (RMSKPA) Desk Review | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/rafael-m-salas-kaunlarang-pantao-award-rmskpa-desk-review/ | 2025-06-23 -----
As part of the regional evaluation process, the Rafael M. Salas Kaunlarang Pantao Award (RMSKPA) Desk Review was held on June 18, 2025, with Cavite State University (CvSU), through the active participation of Dr. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of the Gender and Development Resource Center, taking part in the activity as an official member of the 2025 Regional RMSKPA Committee (RRC). 

 CvSU joined representatives from the Commission on Population and Development (CPD), the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG), Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Department of Health (DOH), and Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) in assessing the documentation and performance of local government units (LGUs) vying for the award. 

 The RMSKPA is a flagship initiative of the CPD which aims to recognize and celebrate the outstanding efforts of LGUs in promoting and institutionalizing Population and Development (POPDEV) strategies. 

 This prestigious award underscores the importance of integrating population dynamics into local governance and development planning, with a focus on achieving inclusive, equitable, and sustainable growth. 

 For the 2025 cycle, the RMSKPA will honor LGUs that have demonstrated excellence, innovation, and measurable impact in implementing POPDEV programs within their communities. The evaluation will center on accomplishments and contributions made by nominated offices across the provincial, city, and municipal levels during the past three years (2022–2024). The award seeks to highlight the best practices and scalable models that advance human development through effective population management and responsive social policies.

----- DOC | CvSU joins global sustainability leaders in 2025 THE Impact Rankings | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cvsu-joins-global-sustainability-leaders-in-2025-the-impact-rankings/ | 2025-06-23 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) has once again earned international recognition as it ranked 1501+ among 2,318 higher education institutions (HEIs) assessed globally in the 2025 Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings. 

 This feat marks a continued commitment by the University to align its academic and institutional efforts with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 

 The THE Impact Rankings evaluate universities worldwide based on their contributions to sustainability through research, stewardship, outreach, and teaching. CvSU's performance reflects its growing role in addressing global challenges, particularly in areas such as No Poverty (SDG 1), Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Life on Land (SDG 15), and Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17). 

 Among its strongest showings, CvSU ranked in the 301–400 band for Life Below Water, underscoring its commitment to environmental stewardship and biodiversity conservation. The University also landed in the 601–800 range for SDG 17, highlighting its collaborative efforts in building sustainable partnerships. 

 CvSU's inclusion in the rankings comes amid a record-breaking year for the Philippines, with 121 HEIs making it to the 2025 list—the highest representation in Southeast Asia and third globally behind India and Pakistan. 

 This milestone affirms CvSU's dedication to fostering inclusive, equitable, and sustainable development through education and innovation. As the University continues to expand its impact, it stands as a proud contributor to the global movement for a better, more sustainable future.

----- DOC | CvSU achieves 93.10% passing rate in June 2025 Licensure Exam for Architects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cvsu-achieves-93-10-passing-rate-in-june-2025-licensure-exam-for-architects/ | 2025-06-19 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) achieved an outstanding 93.10% passing rate (27 out of 29) in the June 2025 Licensure Examination for Architects, surpassing the national passing rate of 65.16%. 

 Congratulations to our new architects and to the CvSU community for this remarkable achievement! 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/june-2025-licensure-examination-architects-results-released-three-3-working-days

----- DOC | Bahaghari: Discovering SOGIESC and LGBTQIA+ Voices | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/bahaghari-discovering-sogiesc-and-lgbtqia-voices/ | 2025-06-19 -----
In its pursuit to deepen the public understanding on the Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression (SOGIE), the Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), successfully conducted the webinar “Bahaghari: Discovering SOGIESC and LGBTQIA+ Voices” on June 17, 2025, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 The webinar aims to define the terms related to sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression; differentiate between sexual orientation and gender identity; recognize common mental health concerns in the LGBTQIA+ community; and develop empathy and respect for the experiences and identities of LGBTQIA+ individuals. 

 

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, Vice President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA and Faculty Member at CvSU Carmona Campus, led the first discussion on the topic “Understanding SOGIE.” 

 His presentation focused on defining key terminologies related to SOGIE. He emphasized that SOGIE is not exclusive to the LGBTQIA+ community; rather, it applies to everyone, regardless of identity. He also addressed common gender-related issues faced by the LGBTQIA+ community, including prejudice, violence, abuse, harassment, and discrimination. During his discussion, he strongly emphasized that SOGIESC (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression, and Sex Characteristics) should never be a basis for unequal treatment or discrimination. He encouraged everyone to approach the topic with an open mind, deepen their understanding, find meaning in diverse experiences, and ultimately become advocates for inclusivity and positive change. 

 

 The second topic, “Mental Health Concerns of the LGBTQIA+ Community,” was discussed by Dr. Marie Gethsemanie P. Hilario, an Associate Professor at De La Salle University–Dasmariñas. 

 She noted that individuals in this community often experience chronic stress, especially when subjected to derogatory labels or discriminatory behavior. This phenomenon, known as minority stress, contributes significantly to the challenges LGBTQIA+ individuals face in coping with societal pressures. She emphasized that addressing these mental health concerns requires a multi-faceted approach—including efforts in education, family, schools, workplaces, organizations, and legal systems. She encouraged everyone to empower individuals to embrace their authentic selves, promote self-awareness and acceptance, and help them feel confident in expressing their identity, beliefs, and values. Most importantly, she highlighted the need to create safe spaces—inclusive, supportive, and open-minded communities where individuals feel accepted and valued. 

 

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, Dr. Marie Gethsemanie Hilario, and Ms. Arlene L. Estrada during the open forum

----- DOC | Provincial GFPS 2nd quarter meeting highlights gender advocacy and institutional strengthening in Cavite | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/provincial-gfps-2nd-quarter-meeting-highlights-gender-advocacy-and-institutional-strengthening-in-cavite/ | 2025-06-16 -----
The Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS) of the Province of Cavite successfully conducted its 2 nd Quarterly Meeting on June 11, 2025, from 2:00 PM to 3:30 PM via Zoom. 

 Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, Extension Coordinator of GADRC, joined other GFPS representatives from various provincial offices in the said meeting which focused on strengthening gender mainstreaming efforts, monitoring progress of GAD-related programs, and aligning the GFPS structure with the incoming provincial administration. 

 The meeting also covered key agenda items including updates from previous sessions, reporting on GAD Plan and Budget (GPB) implementation, and the reconstitution of the GFPS Executive Order. Ms. Aliyah Gonzales from the Office of the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer (OPSWDO) opened the meeting, while Mr. Mark Lester A. Carada of the Provincial Planning and Development Office presided the session. 

 Highlights included the reading of minutes from the previous meeting where it was confirmed that the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) had officially joined the GFPS Technical Working Group. Ms. Gonzales also shared updates on the composition of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Team, ensuring representation from various sectors such as women's organizations and the academe. 

 Ms. Danica Pontimar presented updates on GAD budget-charged activities, particularly the notable accomplishments by OPSWDO, which provided welfare assistance to over 7,500 individuals and delivered a province-wide health caravan for women that reached 1,543 beneficiaries. The Office of the Provincial Cooperative, Livelihood & Entrepreneurial Development also conducted a gender-focused seminar attended by 57 cooperative members. 

 Mr. Carada presented the signed 2026 GPB, outlining the challenges encountered during the preparation phase and reaffirming the province's commitment to responsive planning. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to the discussion on reconstituting the GFPS Executive Order to reflect leadership changes brought about by the new administration. The draft EO will facilitate the transition and ensure the GFPS remains functional and inclusive. 

 Other matters discussed included the planning for the 2026 Regional Women's Month Celebration and the expansion of GFPS Council membership to include representatives from MOVE, 4Ps, Solo Parents, PSA, and the Provincial Library. 

 The meeting concluded with a collective affirmation of continued support for gender-responsive governance and development in Cavite.

----- DOC | CPD Region IV-A conducts 2nd Quarter RPEB Meeting to strengthen population and development efforts in CALABARZON | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cpd-region-iv-a-conducts-2nd-quarter-rpeb-meeting-to-strengthen-population-and-development-efforts-in-calabarzon/ | 2025-06-11 -----
The Commission on Population and Development (CPD) Region IV-A convened its Second Quarter Regional Population Executive Board (RPEB) Meeting at the PhilHealth Regional Office IV-B Conference Room in Batangas City, June 10, 2025. 

 Ms. Kate Angeline S. Hernando, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, and Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, Extension Coordinator of the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) attended the said event which gathered representatives from regional line agencies, state universities and colleges (SUCs), and development partners to assess progress, align strategies, and reinforce collaborative efforts in the region's population and development agenda. 

 In his opening remarks, Atty. Jerry F. Ibay, Regional Vice President of PhilHealth IV-B and Batangas, welcomed the participants and commended the strong inter-agency turnout. He also invited attendees to tour the PhilHealth IV-B office after the meeting, highlighting the host agency's commitment to health service delivery and stakeholder engagement. 

 The meeting's agenda began with updates from the First Quarter RPEB Meeting. Mr. Neil Ivan E. Quitangon, Planning Officer I of CPD-CALABARZON, reported on the status of eight key agreements. These included the formal drafting and signing of RPEB Resolution No. 2025-01, granting the National Youth Commission (NYC) special non-voting membership in the RPEB, and the successful conduct of the KATROPA Training of Trainers. Collaborative initiatives with partner SUCs such as Cavite State University (CvSU), Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU), University of the Philippines – Los Baños (UPLB), and Batangas State University (BatStateU) were also highlighted through courtesy visits, coordinative meetings, and MOU signings. 

 One of the key presentations came from the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) IV-A and Asmae Philippines, which shared the results of their study titled “Situation of Bajau Children in Batangas City.” The study assessed the realization of rights among Sama Bajau children, using an intersectional gender lens, and proposed a framework to address protection concerns, educational access, youth empowerment, and human settlement issues. 

 PhilHealth IV-B's Mr. Eugene C. Coronel also presented a comprehensive overview of the KonSulTa Package, emphasizing its application procedures, service offerings, and benefits for members. This agenda aimed to further educate RPEB members on inclusive healthcare initiatives. 

 Director Marlyn F. Ogaya of CPD-CALABARZON shared the outcomes of recent partnership-building efforts, including coordination meetings with DOH and DILG officials, and the formalization of collaboration through the signing of MOUs and MOAs with CvSU and other stakeholders. These initiatives are expected to enhance implementation of population programs at the regional level. 

 Another major highlight was the update on the 2025 Regional Rafael M. Salas Kaunlarang Pantao Award (RMSKPA). The award aims to recognize outstanding local government units (LGUs) in implementing innovative and effective population and development programs. Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Director of CvSU's GADRC, represents the university in the RMSKPA Regional Committee. Desk reviews and field validation visits are scheduled for June 18-20, 2025. 

 In closing, the meeting announced that the 3rd Quarter RPEB Meeting will be facilitated by CvSU on September 4, 2025, while the 4th Quarter Meeting is tentatively set for December 5, 2025. 

 This gathering reaffirmed the commitment of CPD Region IV-A and its partners to promoting inclusive, data-informed, and community-centered population development initiatives across CALABARZON.

----- DOC | The Power of Inclusion: Building Equitable and Inclusive Learning Environments | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/the-power-of-inclusion-building-equitable-and-inclusive-learning-environments/ | 2025-06-09 -----
In pursuit of inclusive practices in education, the Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar titled “The Power of Inclusion: Building Equitable and Inclusive Learning Environments” on June 5, 2025, via Zoom and Facebook Live. 

 The webinar aims to enhance educators' understanding of inclusive, gender-responsive education and how intersecting identities affect learners' access and experiences; equip faculty with rights-based, inclusive teaching strategies that promote safe, respectful, and equitable classroom environments for all. It also seeks to promote awareness of legal mandates and institutional policies supporting inclusive education, such as the Magna Carta of Women and CHED gender policies; and encourage the integration of inclusive principles in curriculum, classroom practices, and assessments to affirm diversity and advance social justice. 

 

 Dr. India Frances Lane, Associate Dean and Professor of the University of Tennessee System – College of Veterinary Medicine discussed the first topic “Inclusive Teaching in Veterinary Medicine at the University of Tennessee Knoxville College of Veterinary Medicine”. Her presentation highlighted that inclusive teaching includes the way through which teaching is developed and carried out to promote learning and well- being of all students in the classroom– regardless of who they are, where the students come from, we promote fairness and inclusivity to all. She also emphasized that rapport, engagement, and learning influence the classroom inclusion. Since inclusivity inside the classroom will greatly impact the learning and engagement of the students, it is necessary that instructors, educators, or teachers are not only able to spot and identify unconscious biases but also mitigate these to promote fairness and inclusion. 

 

 The topic GNED 10 – Gender and Society was discussed by Ms. Darylvy Avila, a faculty member from the College of Arts and Sciences. She emphasized the critical importance of the course Gender and Society as platform for Inclusive Teaching as inclusive teaching is an approach of making the learning accessible to every learner. She explained that the diversity and inclusive teaching are important to amplify the learning when both are recognized. Through diversity and inclusive teaching inside the classroom, she said that we instill a sense of belongingness. She also mentioned that diverse classrooms can contribute to students' emotional intelligence, improving empathy, and perspective to help them thrive on their career and profession.

----- DOC | CvSU, DA RFO IV-A lead techno demo farm groundbreaking | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cvsu-da-rfo-iv-a-lead-techno-demo-farm-groundbreaking/ | 2025-06-05 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) and Department of Agriculture Regional Field Office IV- CALABARZON (DA RFO IV-CALABARZON) – Cavite Agricultural Research and Experiment Station (CARES) led the groundbreaking ceremony for the development and operation of an integrated Techno Demo Farm at the CvSU STAR Farm in Indang, Cavite, May 21. 

 The groundbreaking event was graced by officials and representatives from CvSU; DA; DA – CARES; Bureau of Plant Industry; Bureau of Agricultural Research; Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development; Provincial Agricultural Research and Experiment Stations; Office of the Provincial Agriculturist-Cavite; Municipal Agriculture Office of Indang; Regional Agricultural and Fishery Council; and multipurpose cooperatives. 

 This partnership with DA RFO IV-CALABARZON is in line with CvSU's mandate to conduct research and extension services, and provide progressive leadership in the areas of agriculture, science and technology, education, and other related fields.  

 Through this initiative, the University also supports DA RFO IV-CALABARZON's commitment to enhance the farmers' competitive edge by providing “modern technologies and up-to-date business information by searching, testing, innovation, improving, and demonstrating new and better technologies in production, post-harvest, processing, and value-adding.” 

 For this project, both parties will collaborate through knowledge and resource sharing, and implement various programs and activities aimed at promoting and establishing sustainable farming technologies and agribusinesses. These include conduct of instruction, research, development, extension, and monitoring and evaluation of the activities, policies, and technologies related to the project, among others.  

 CvSU will provide 1.3 hectares of land, as well as other agriculture facilities, resources, technology, manpower, and capabilities for the development and operations of the Techno Demo Farm.

----- DOC | CvSU obtains ISO 9001:2015 recertification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cvsu-obtains-iso-90012015-recertification/ | 2025-06-05 -----
As a testament to its commitment and dedication to quality and excellence, Cavite State University (CvSU) is recommended for recertification of its ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System (QMS). 

 The recertification audit conducted by SOCOTEC Certification Philippines, Inc. on May 13-14, 2025 concluded that the management systems of CvSU Main, Naic, and CCAT campuses for the following activities remain in compliance with ISO 9001:2015 requirements: provision of admission and registration, management of learning (covering graduate and undergraduate programs), and research and extension services. 

 CvSU first obtained its ISO 9001:2015 certification in December 2018, and received Philippine Quality Award Recognition for Mastery in Quality Management (Level III) in 2024.  

 The University extends its utmost appreciation to the CvSU community for their collaborative efforts in continuously improving and sustaining the institution's quality management practices.  

 With this achievement, CvSU remains committed to the continuous enhancement of its QMS aligned with institutional goals and stakeholder expectations.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new CPAs! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-cpas-2/ | 2025-06-04 -----
Cavite State University posted a 58.06% passing rate (18/31) in the licensure examination for CPAs held in May 2025. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 3,156 out of 9,533 examinees (33.11%) passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Accountancy in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/may-2025-licensure-examination-certified-public-accountants-results-released-five-5-working

----- DOC | Successful seminar-orientation, contract signing strengthen ties with rental, concessionaire partners | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/06/successful-seminar-orientation-contract-signing-strengthen-ties-with-rental-concessionaire-partners/ | 2025-06-02 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) held its Seminar-Orientation and Contract Signing for Rental and Concessionaire Partners on May 28, 2025, at the International House II Function Hall. 

 This event served as a crucial platform for strengthening institutional partnerships and aligning shared goals toward a more dynamic, efficient, and sustainable business environment. 

 On behalf of University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, the activity was led by Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation, alongside Dr. Jessie Anne T. Demetilio, Director for Business Affairs and Marketing (BAM); Ms. Angielyn M. Erni, Unit Head of the Rental and Concessionaire Unit (RCU); and support staff Mr. Jexter Brence C. Chavez (RCU) and Ms. Alexandrine M. Llamado (BAM). Their leadership and insights provided clear direction and reinforced the institution's commitment to productive collaborations. 

 The orientation session highlighted key institutional guidelines, operational expectations, and opportunities for synergy among partners. Meanwhile, the contract signing formalized mutual commitments, reinforcing transparency, accountability, and a shared vision for long-term growth. This successful activity marks another step forward in fostering a professional and cooperative business ecosystem within the University. (Report and photos from OVPBRG)

----- DOC | CvSU students co-develop ATI CALABARZON's e-Library | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-students-co-develop-ati-calabarzons-e-library/ | 2025-05-29 -----
Information Technology (IT) students from Cavite State University (CvSU) co-developed an innovation that will help the Department of Agriculture – Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) CALABARZON to make agri-fishery information more accessible to the public.  

 According to ATI CALABARZON , the e-Library and IEC Materials Requisition System co-developed by their Information Services Section and CvSU IT student interns “aims to support farmers, fishers, students, researchers, and the general public by providing free and open access to a wide range of digital learning resources.” 

 During the launch , Engr. Remelyn Recoter, Director IV of the ATI Central Office, recognized the contribution of CvSU IT students Jude Bautista, James Ezekiel Daquis, Mark Ken Felix Madrid, John Jayson Magboo, Jaissen Yves Nazareno, John Dave Suyat, Johnbert Christiene Tagle, and Ian Gabrielle Teodoro for co-developing this webpage which is part of their internship in the agency.  

 The said students ranked first and third in ATI CALABARZON's “Agri-Tech Innovate: Accelerating Digital Solutions for Sustainable Agriculture and Fisheries (Digi Agri Hack)” competition, and are now advancing to the Boot Camp (Mentoring Session) phase. 

 Now publicly accessible through the webpage https://aticalabarzon.web.app/home , the e-Library contains a collection of learning resources, publications, and other knowledge products on agriculture and fisheries published by ATI and their partners and stakeholders.  

 “Some of the useful resources underscore crop production, livestock, climate-resilient practices, organic agriculture, and agripreneurship,” ATI CALABARZON said in its press release.

----- DOC | CvSU shines through sports in UGames 2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-shines-through-sports-in-ugames-2025/ | 2025-05-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) colleges and satellite campuses gathered for a week-long showcase of athletic excellence in this year's University Games, May 19-23, at the Main Campus in Indang, Cavite.  

 Themed “SPORTS: Sustaining Excellence through Strength, Perseverance, Opportunity, Respect, Teamwork, and Success,” CvSU athletes battled it out in archery, arnis, athletics, badminton, baseball, basketball (3×3 and 5×5), beach volleyball, billiards, chess, dance sports, eSports (Mobile Legends: Bang Bang), football, futsal, karatedo, lawn tennis, sepak takraw, softball, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, and volleyball.  

 On behalf of Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) Chairperson Richard E. Bachmann, PSC Commissioner Walter Francis K. Torres addressed the opening ceremony crowd composed of athletes, coaches, students, employees, and officials from 22 participating colleges and satellite campuses of CvSU.  

 “The University Games is more than just a competition. This will be a celebration of collective strength, talent, and character. As you all compete, you also unite as one Cavite State University community committed to integrity, driven by excellence, and ready to shine both on and off the field,” Chairperson Bachmann said in a speech delivered by Commissioner Torres.  

 For the final medal count, the CvSU CCAT Pistons clinched back-to-back University Games overall championship titles after bagging 59 gold, 20 silver, and 22 bronze medals.  

 Closely following in second place are the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation Warriors with a total of 58 gold, 86 silver, and 51 bronze medals; the CvSU Imus Heroes at third place with 47 gold, 54 silver, and 38 bronze medals; and the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Ravens at fourth place with 35 gold, 10 silver, and 3 bronze medals. 

 After this year's co-hosting by the College of Education and CvSU Tanza Campus, the College of Arts and Sciences and CvSU Naic Campus will host the 2026 University Games. 

 (From L-R) VP for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, VP for Planning and Development Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, PSC Comm. Walter Francis K. Torres, VP for Academic Affairs Dr. Cristina M. Signo, and VP for Administrative and Support Services Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno during the awarding of plaque of appreciation to the guest speaker 
 CvSU student athlete Marc Nelson Perey leads the lighting of the urn during the University Games opening ceremony 
 The CvSU CCAT Pistons receive the plaque of recognition for being the overall champion in the 2025 University Games

----- DOC | CvSU is 5th top performing school in March 2025 Licensure Exam for Professional Teachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-is-5th-top-performing-school-in-march-2025-licensure-exam-for-professional-teachers/ | 2025-05-24 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) proudly acknowledges the exceptional performance of its campuses in the March 2025 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers, both in the Elementary and Secondary Levels. 

 

 Elementary Level: 

 
 Main Campus: 94.23% (Top 5 Performing School with 50-99 examinees) 

 Cavite City Campus: 100% 

 Imus Campus: 100% 

 Naic Campus: 66.67% 

 Silang Campus: 100% 

 Tanza Campus: 60.00% 

 
 National Passing Rate: 46.79% 

 

 Secondary Level: 

 
 Main Campus: 79.58% 

 Bacoor City Campus: 90.00% 

 Carmona Campus: 86.67% 

 Cavite City Campus: 76.19% 

 General Trias Campus: 85.71% 

 Imus Campus: 93.33% 

 Naic Campus: 76.92% 

 Rosario Campus: 72.22% 

 Silang Campus: 90.91% 

 Tanza Campus: 73.68% 

 Trece Martires City Campus: 87.50% 

 
 National Passing Rate: 62.31% 

 We salute all our passers and educators for their hard work, dedication, and excellence. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/march-2025-licensure-examination-professional-teachers-results-released-forty-one-41?fbclid=IwQ0xDSwKdX6hleHRuA2FlbQIxMQABHoF6O6mVrC9ns5kg0RuN7WHHyz4YyzEJn68766092zeCoRvmb0e-P3OSNxPs_aem_nH2i9XxthDHdEJ9jTBz8Ew

----- DOC | CvSU, stakeholders tackle critical science behind coasts in 'Cavite Coastal Stories' | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-stakeholders-tackle-critical-science-behind-coasts-in-cavite-coastal-stories/ | 2025-05-14 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) gathered relevant stakeholders for a roundtable discussion on wetlands and sea turtle nesting sites, April 8, 2025, at the CvSU Interdisciplinary Research Building Conference Room. 

 Spearheaded by the CvSU Research Center, “Cavite Coastal Stories: The Case of Cavite Wetlands and Sea Turtle Nesting Sites” united key stakeholders from Cavite's coastal local government units of Cavite City, Kawit, Maragondon, Naic, and Noveleta; Department of Environment and Natural Resources – Provincial Environment and Natural Resources Cavite; the Philippine Reclamation Authority; and private institutions to forge collaborative pathways for coastal biodiversity conservation. 

 CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and Research and Extension Vice President Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac opened the event with their inspirational messages where they emphasized how the university can contribute through research in providing holistic solutions to the problems and issues affecting coastal areas. 

 Resource persons including Ms. Ailene H. Calamlam, Mr. Daeniel Zarene P. Mojica, Mr. John Daniel V. Cap-atan, and Mr. Glenn Bryan A. Creencia from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR) – Department of Forestry and Environmental Science, presented vital research on oyster farming suitability, sea turtle nesting sites, seagrass biodiversity, and wetland characterization. 

 The event concluded with the stakeholders' presentation of the ways forward based on the research findings, with some focusing on policy formulation and science-based decision making. (with reports and photos from CvSU Research Center and CAFENR)

----- DOC | CvSU posts 43.10% passing rate in April 2025 Civil Engineers Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-posts-43-10-passing-rate-in-april-2025-civil-engineers-licensure-exam/ | 2025-05-07 -----
Cavite State University posted a 43.10% passing rate (50 out of 116 examinees) in the recently held April 2025 Civil Engineers Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 4,940 out of 16,913 (29.21%) hurdled the said licensure examination given by the Board of Civil Engineering last month. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2025-civil-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working-days

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new Registered Electrical Engineers and Master Electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/05/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-registered-electrical-engineers-and-master-electricians/ | 2025-05-05 -----
Cavite State University's performance in the April 2025 Registered Electrical Engineers (REE) and Registered Master Electricians (RME) Licensure Examinations: 

 REE Results: 

 Main Campus: 71.43% (10/14) 

 Rosario Campus: 77.78% (14/18) 

 (National Passing Rate: 61.37%) 

 RME Results: 

 Main Campus: 50.00% (1/2) 

 Rosario Campus: 100% (1/1) 

 (National Passing Rate: 68.37%) 

 Congratulations to all passers! 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2025-registered-electrical-engineers-and-registered-master-electricians-licensure

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's new Registered Midwives! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/04/congratulations-to-cvsus-new-registered-midwives/ | 2025-04-23 -----
Congratulations to Cavite State University's successful examinees in the April 2025 Licensure Examination for Midwives! 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 1,975 out of 3,444 passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Midwifery in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2025-licensure-examination-midwives-results-released-three-3-working-days#:~:text=The%20Professional%20Regulation%20Commission%20(PRC,and%20Zamboanga%20this%20April%202025

----- DOC | CvSU reaps fourth ITSO Platinum Award | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/04/cvsu-reaps-fourth-itso-platinum-award/ | 2025-04-14 -----
For the fourth consecutive year, Cavite State University (CvSU) – Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) received the prestigious Platinum Award during the 2025 ITSO Presidents' Summit and General Assembly at the Sequoia Hotel, Manila Bay in Parañaque City, April 10, 2025. 

 The University is also awarded with two Special Citation Awards for achieving at least 10 filings each for both trademarks and patents in 2024. 

 Representing the University during the event were Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension; Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, OIC of the Knowledge Management Center; Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Head of the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management Division (IPTBMD) and ITSO Manager; and Mr. Gerald T. Viado, IPTBMD Staff. 

 With the theme, “Empowering ITSOs Towards Global Recognition of Innovation Breakthroughs,” ITSO representatives in the country gathered to celebrate key milestones and strengthen collaborations among member institutions on innovation and intellectual property. (with report from the Knowledge Management Center) 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, and Mr. Gerald T. Viado during the awarding ceremony at the 2025 ITSO Presidents' Summit and General Assembly (Photo from the Official Facebook Page of the CvSU Knowledge Management Center)

----- DOC | CvSUeños' loyalty and excellence honored in Gawad Laya at Diwa 2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/04/cvsuenos-loyalty-and-excellence-honored-in-gawad-laya-at-diwa-2025/ | 2025-04-03 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) honored its students, faculty members, employees, retirees, and units during the Gawad Laya at Diwa 2025, March 27, at the International Convention Center. 

 With the theme “Sustaining Quality and Integrity towards Excellence in the New Generation,” CvSU recognized the awardees' unwavering commitment to upholding the institution's core values and contributing to its transformative growth.  

 In a message delivered by National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) IV-A Regional Director Carmel P. Matabang, NEDA Sec. Arsenio M. Balisacan acknowledged the dedication of CvSU's students, faculty, and staff, in making a profound impact not only locally, but in the whole country. 

 “By working together, we are not only upholding the legacy of CvSU, but also laying the foundation for a society that thrives in an ever-changing world. Every role within this University is instrumental in shaping a brighter future for our region and our nation,” Sec. Balisacan said in the delivered speech.  

 Moreover, Sec. Balisacan highlighted how the theme serves not only as a guiding principle but also a call to action. He emphasized “the crucial role of educators and institutions in producing highly skilled and globally competitive graduates” in line with the CALABARZON Regional Development Plan 2023-2028. 

 University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, along with Regional Director Matabang, Vice President (VP) for Academic Affairs Dr. Cristina M. Signo, VP for Administrative and Support Services Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, and VP for Planning and Development and Business and Resource Generation Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, led in honoring the retirees and employees in active service who rendered 10, 15, 25, and 35 years of continuous service to CvSU. 

 Mr. Hyram Adrienne M. Salinas, a fourth year BS Education Major in English student from the CvSU Tanza Campus, was hailed as the CvSU Outstanding Student of the Year 2024 with his exemplary accomplishments in academics and extracurricular activities as an academic achiever and student leader.  

 Through the CvSU Program on Awards and Incentives for Service and Excellence (CvSU-PRAISE), the following awards were given to exceptional officials, employees, and units who went above and beyond in upholding the highest standards of excellence in education and public service:

----- DOC | CvSU celebrates 119th founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-celebrates-119th-founding-anniversary/ | 2025-03-31 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) commemorated its 119th Founding Anniversary with the theme “Sustaining Quality and Integrity Towards Excellence in the New Generation,” March 26-28, 2025. 

 University employees and officials led by CvSU President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, and the members of the de las Alas family, gathered for the wreath-laying ceremony to honor the enduring legacy of Don Severino de las Alas. 

 The family portrait of Don Severino was also unveiled at the CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum as a tribute to the visionary leader and educator. 

 This was followed by the Ecumenical Thanksgiving Service as the CvSU community offered prayers for families, students, parents, employees, and officials. 

 Employees and members of the Administrative Council also led the ribbon cutting for the Foundation Day Exhibit. They also graced the blessing of newly constructed facilities, including the Waste Water Treatment Facility, Baño de Señora Resort, Planning Office, SPRINT Center Training and Exhibit Hall (Bulwagang Irok), University Entrepreneurial Center, and International House II Arch. 

 Meanwhile, transformative partnerships for a better future took the spotlight as the University recognized its partner organizations during the Partners' Gala 2025: “Honoring Excellence, Integrity, and Collaboration.” 

 The second day kicked off with the Employees' Star Olympics 2025 parade and zumba wellness activities spearheaded by the CvSU Faculty Association and Non-Academic Employees Association. Participating faculty members and employees from the main and satellite campuses competed in the following sports events: basketball, volleyball, table tennis, and badminton.  

 The community's furry friends also gathered for the CvSU Pet Parade and free anti-rabies vaccination drive, a joint activity by the College of Medicine and the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) in celebration of the Rabies Month, the University Foundation Day, and the 25th anniversary of CVMBS. 

 Moreover, student organizations opened the two-day Malayang Diwa Festival 2025 highlighting a series of activities including Iskolar's Bazaar booths, Sine Juana film showing, musical and theatrical performances, and fire prevention seminar and workshop, among others.  

 Recognizing the employees' unwavering dedication to public service and upholding the tenets of the institution, CvSU honored the service loyalty awardees and retirees during the Gawad Laya at Diwa 2025.  

 The University also recognized notable faculty members, non-teaching personnel, students, and units that were hailed as this year's recipients of CvSU Outstanding Student of the Year, Gabay ng CvSU Award (Administrator of the Year Award), Tanglaw ng Mag-aaral Award (Faculty of the Year Award), Kabalikat Award (Employee of the Year Award), Galing ng CvSU Award (Model Employee of the Year), Mananaliksik ng CvSU Award (Researcher of the Year Award), Tagapag-ugnay ng CvSU Award (Extensionist of the Year Award), Pinakamaayos na Yunit Award (Most Organized Unit Award), Husay ng CvSU Award (Best Organizational Unit Award). 

 The three-day celebration capped off with a zumba session, Kapehan ng Alumni, Parangal sa Alumni, and Pasiklaban ng Aluminum Season 3 as part of the Alumni Loyalty Day 2025 organized by the CvSU Alumni Association, Inc.

----- DOC | Webinar 3 – From Rights to Reality: The Magna Carta of Women | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/webinar-3-from-rights-to-reality-the-magna-carta-of-women/ | 2025-03-25 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted the third episode of its 2025 Women's Month Webinar Series titled, “From Rights to Reality: The Magna Carta of Women,” March 20, 2025, via Zoom videoconferencing and Facebook livestream. 

 This webinar aimed to educate participants on the legal foundations of gender equality, particularly on Republic Act No. 9710, also known as the Magna Carta of Women. Discussions centered on gender disparities in employment, leadership, and decision-making, as well as strategies for fostering gender-inclusive workplaces and strengthening partnerships to promote gender equality. 

 

 To formally start the webinar, Dr. Maria Soledad M. Lising, Dean of the College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies, delivered her opening message. She cited statistics on how women compare to men in everyday life. She also highlighted issues related to gender equality, such as gender discrimination and unequal opportunities, emphasizing that these challenges persist today. Additionally, she stated that just because these issues may not be personally experienced by some, it does not mean they no longer exist. Lastly, she thanked the GAD Resource Center for organizing the webinar on the Magna Carta of Women. 

 

 Atty. Rona Ann V. Caritos, Executive Director of the Legal Network for Truthful Elections (LENTE), discussed the importance of women's political participation. She highlighted international frameworks such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Beijing Declaration, and CEDAW, which advocate for women's representation in governance. Atty. Caritos also examined local legal provisions, including the 1987 Philippine Constitution and the Magna Carta for Women, while addressing the barriers women face in politics, such as technology-facilitated gender-based violence (TFGBV) during elections. She underscored the importance of anti-discrimination guidelines to ensure fair and inclusive political campaigns. 

 

 Lastly, Atty. Caritos highlighted the Anti-Discrimination and Fair Campaigning Guidelines which prohibit discrimination based on gender, disability, religion, and HIV status. These guidelines also ban acts of bullying, coercion, and vilification of vulnerable groups across various media platforms, including television, radio, and the internet. 

 

 Atty. Rosita C. Villaluz from the Department of Labor and Employment Region IV-A discussed workplace policies promoting gender equality and labor standards. She emphasized compliance with laws on anti-sexual harassment, HIV/AIDS, and occupational safety. Atty. Villaluz elaborated on the Expanded Maternity Leave Act (RA 11210), which grants 105 days of paid leave, with additional provisions for solo parents and male partners. She also discussed ILO Convention No. 190, which mandates protection against workplace violence and harassment. Additionally, she highlighted international efforts by the World Bank and UN Women in advocating for childcare investments to enhance women's workforce participation. 

 

 To formally close the webinar, Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of the College of Nursing, acknowledged how the discussions in this webinar series have been both timely and essential as we continue to push for greater gender justice and empowerment. She emphasized that while the speakers have shown how far we have come, much work remains to translate legal rights into tangible changes in various aspects of women's lives, including the workplace, home, healthcare, and education. Dr. Del Mundo also highlighted that having rights is not enough—there must be commitment and action to ensure that they are fully realized. Lastly, she reminded everyone that the fight for gender equality is not solely the responsibility of women, but a collective mission that requires the active participation of every member of society.

----- DOC | CvSU joins 2025 Regional Women's Month Celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-joins-2025-regional-womens-month-celebration/ | 2025-03-24 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), participated in the Regional Women's Month Celebration held on March 20, 2025, at the Ynares Event Center in Antipolo, Rizal. 

 Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, GADRC Director; Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, Ms. Lorelei V. Sobremonte, and Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, GAD Coordinators; and Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC Staff, attended the said event spearheaded by the National Economic and Development Authority – Region IV-A (NEDA IV-A), with support from the Local Government of Antipolo and the University of Rizal System (URS).  

 (L-R) Mr. Ariel Rivera, Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, Dr. Ma. Cythia Rundina-Dela Cruz (GADRC Director), Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, and Ms. Lorelei V. Sobremonte 
 Demonstrating CvSU's unwavering commitment to gender and development advocacy, the university stood in solidarity with fellow government agencies under the theme: “WE for Gender Equality and Inclusive Society.” This unified message underscores the collective pursuit of a more inclusive and equitable society—not just within academic institutions but across public service sectors. 

 Regional Director Carmel P. Matabang, NEDA IV-A, during her welcome message. 
 The program officially commenced with a welcome message from Regional Director Carmel P. Matabang who highlighted the strides made in bridging gender gaps through the coordinated efforts of various government bodies. 

 This was followed by inspirational messages from Hon. Nina Ricci Ynares, Governor of Rizal Province who expressed strong support for continuing gender initiatives in local governance; and Dr. Nancy T. Pascual, University President of URS, who emphasized the critical role of education in gender empowerment. 

 The keynote address was delivered by Dr. Amaryllis T. Torres, Professor Emeritus of the University of the Philippines College of Social Work and Community Development (UP-CSWCD), who provided deep insights into the evolving landscape of gender advocacy in the Philippines. 

 Hon. Nina Ricci Ynares during the inspirational message 
 Dr. Amaryllis T. Torres, Professor Emeritus, UP CSWD, during her keynote message 
 The celebration featured three informative and thought-provoking sessions with the first one titled “Advancing Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment” discussed by Ms. Nharleen Santos-Millar, Officer-in-Charge, Executive Director of the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW). Ms. Santos-Millar centered her discussion on the Beijing Platform for Action (BPFA 30+), addressing its implementation in the Philippines and the need for deliberate and sustained application of gender-focused legislation. She emphasized that while notable progress has been made, continuous advocacy is essential to achieving true inclusivity and equality.   

 Afterwards, Dr. Benjamin R. Quiñones, Chairperson, Asian Solidarity Economy Council led the session on “Empowering Women through Social Solidarity Economy in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals,” where he highlighted the critical role of civil society organizations in advancing women's economic participation through social entrepreneurship. He underscored how the Social Solidarity Economy contributes to inclusive and sustainable development.   

 Furthermore, the presentation by Ms. Fely M. Baday, Supervising Volunteer Officer and GFPS Chairperson, Philippine National Volunteer Service Coordinating Agency (PNVSCA), titled “Volunteerism on Gender Equality and Women Empowerment” addressed the gender-specific challenges faced in volunteerism. She explored how strategic volunteer engagement can serve as a catalyst in closing gender gaps and fostering inclusive development.  

 Ms. Nharleen Santos-Millar, Officer-in-Charge, Executive Director during her discussion 
 Dr. Benjamin R. Quiñones, Chairperson, Asian Solidarity Economy Council, during his discussion. 
 Ms. Fely M. Baday, Supervising Volunteer Officer and GFPS Chairperson, during her discussion. 
 One of the event's significant highlights was the official launch of the CALABARZON Gender and Development Agenda 2025–2030, a strategic roadmap aimed at deepening regional commitments to gender equality and inclusive growth. This was followed by a ceremonial turnover of responsibilities to the next organizer of the Regional Women's Month Celebration given to the Provincial Government of Cavite. 

 Ms. Josephine C. Parilla, RGADC Co-chairperson, during her closing message. 
 To conclude the program, Ms. Josephine C. Parilla, Co-Chairperson of the Regional Gender and Development Committee (RGADC), delivered the closing message where she reiterated the importance of sustaining collective efforts and emphasized the shared vision of achieving a just and inclusive society where “everyone can be equALL.” 

 Through active participation in events like these, CvSU reinforces its dedication to gender equality—not just within the campus, but as a partner in national development. The university continues to work together with other institutions to foster a society where every individual, regardless of gender, is given equal opportunity to thrive. 

 Turn-over ceremony for the next organizer of 2026 Regional Women's Month Celebration – Provincial Government of Cavite 
 Participants of the 2025 Regional Women's Month Celebration

----- DOC | 2025 National Women's Month: Aangat ang Bukas: Strengthening Women's Rights through the Magna Carta | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/2025-national-womens-month-aangat-ang-bukas-strengthening-womens-rights-through-the-magna-carta/ | 2025-03-20 -----
The 2025 Cavite State University (CvSU) Women's Month Celebration marks a significant milestone in the ongoing pursuit of gender equality and women's empowerment. 

 This year's celebration coincides with two historic events: the 50th anniversary of the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW) and the 30th anniversary of the Beijing Platform for Action (BPfA). Through this, CvSU continues to champion the empowerment of women, fostering an environment where gender rights are recognized, upheld, and strengthened. 

 

 Associate Professor Ma. Cristina J. Baesa delivered the opening message, emphasizing the theme Aangat ang Bukas – Strengthening Women's Rights Through the Magna Carta. She highlighted the global underrepresentation of women in the workforce, noting that only 40% are employed, and with just 28.2% holding management positions. At the current pace, she said that achieving gender equality could take 140 years. She underscored the importance of the Magna Carta of Women (RA 9710) in addressing these disparities by promoting and protecting women's rights. Concluding her message, she reaffirmed her commitment as a GAD advocate and called for collective efforts to improve the welfare of women and children. 

 

 Ms. Charlotte Ann P. Tolentino, an Arnis athlete from the Philippine National Team, discussed the challenges that women face in male-dominated fields, including gender bias, economic disparities, and cultural stereotypes. She highlighted barriers like harassment, lack of mentorship, and patriarchy, which limit women's opportunities. Ms. Tolentino emphasized the importance of skills development, education, mentorship, self-advocacy, and leadership in overcoming these challenge, and encouraged women to break stereotypes and create lasting change. 

 

 Mr. Richard P. Perez, in-charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation for CvSU MOVE KATROPA, tackled the crucial role of men in advancing gender equality. He emphasized that gender equality is a societal issue that benefits families, workplaces, and communities. Using a bicycle analogy, he illustrated how progress is hindered when one gender is marginalized. Mr. Perez highlighted the need for men, especially those in leadership roles, to actively support gender equality. He outlined key actions, including sharing domestic responsibilities, encouraging their partners' aspirations, educating children on equality, advocating for fair treatment, and supporting women in leadership. 

 

 Dr. Jessie Anne T. Demetillo, OIC of the Business Affairs and Marketing Office, expressed gratitude to Mr. Leonard V. Paunil for moderating the webinar and to the honored speakers, Ms. Tolentino and Mr. Perez. She also acknowledged the contributions of GADRC OIC Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, university officials, faculty, staff, and students. In her closing remarks, Dr. Demetillo emphasized the importance of fostering a culture of empowerment and equality as outlined in the Magna Carta of Women. She called for collective action to uphold dignity, ensure equal protection, and advocate for gender equality, encouraging collaboration between men and women in advancing women's rights.

----- DOC | Empowering Women: The Magna Carta as a Tool for Inclusive Progress | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/empowering-women-the-magna-carta-as-a-tool-for-inclusive-progress/ | 2025-03-17 -----
The 2025 Women's Month Celebration Webinar Series commenced with its first session, “Empowering Women: The Magna Carta as a Tool for Inclusive Progress,” on March 13, 2025, 8:00 AM via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook livestream. 

 

 Dr. Ammie Ferrer, Officer-in-Charge of the College of Arts and Sciences, welcomed everyone and emphasized the significance of the webinar in raising awareness about gender equality and women's rights. She highlighted the importance of understanding legal foundations, addressing workplace challenges, and fostering inclusive opportunities for women. Dr. Ferrer also underscored the role of collective efforts in advancing gender advocacy, and encouraged participants to apply their learnings in promoting women's empowerment. Subsequently, Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, Training Coordinator of the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), outlined the objectives of the activity and the house rules to ensure a smooth and structured session for all participants. 

 The webinar proper focused on essential discussions concerning women's rights and gender equality, providing attendees with an in-depth understanding of the legal frameworks and challenges associated with its implementation. The session was organized into three key topics, each presented by distinguished experts in gender law, policy, and development. 

 

 The first topic, “History and Development of Women's Rights in the Philippines,” was delivered by Atty. Louise Aubrey Mejia, Senior Legal Associate at the UP Gender Law and Policy Program. She provided an overview of the historical, legal, and international frameworks that have shaped gender equality in the country. It began with an introduction to the role of laws in reflecting and prescribing societal values. The historical overview traces the status of women from the pre-colonial period to contemporary society, highlighting the evolving roles and challenges faced by Filipino women. The international backdrop discusses the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), emphasizing its role in eliminating gender-based discrimination and promoting equality. The Philippine legal framework section outlines key gender-related legislations, including the Magna Carta of Women, Anti-Violence Against Women and Their Children Act, Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act, Safe Spaces Act, and Expanded Maternity Leave Law. These laws aim to protect women's rights in various aspects, such as employment, education, public life, and personal safety. However, challenges remain in labor rights, education, and legal enforcement, indicating the need for continued advocacy and policy improvements to achieve gender equality in the Philippines. 

 

 The second topic, “Overview of the Magna Carta of Women,” was presented by Atty. Irene Pua, Legal Associate at the UP Gender Law and Policy Program. She provided a comprehensive discussion on the legal framework supporting gender equality in the Philippines. It highlights key constitutional provisions, such as those in the 1987 Constitution, which recognize women's roles in nation-building and mandate their protection in various aspects of society. The CEDAW is also emphasized as the foundation for the Magna Carta of Women (RA 9710), which aims to eliminate gender discrimination and promote substantive equality. The law defines gender-based discrimination and outlines the state's obligations to ensure women empowerment, equal opportunities, and protection from violence. Key provisions include the recognition of women's rights as human rights, gender-sensitive policies in education, health, employment, and political participation, as well as mechanisms for gender mainstreaming. The session also discussed institutional responsibilities, such as the role of the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW) and the Commission on Human Rights (CHR), and legal cases that reinforce the importance of gender equality in governance and workplace policies. Ultimately, the presentation underscores the need for continuous efforts to implement and strengthen gender-responsive policies for an inclusive society. 

 

 The final topic, “Challenges in Implementing the Magna Carta of Women,” was presented by Ms. Lovely S. Mores, Officer-in-Charge and Assistant Regional Director of NEDA Region IV-A. She provided a critical analysis of the law's role in protecting women's rights and eliminating discrimination, also underscoring persistent challenges in its implementation. Violence against women (VAW) remains a critical issue, with many cases of intimate partner violence and gaps in the functionality of VAW desks. According to Ms. Mores, women's participation and representation in leadership, governance, and decision-making bodies still fall short of mandated targets, while gender disparities persist in the military, media, and sports sectors. She added that limited data availability hinders proper assessment and policy-making, particularly in areas such as women's participation in sports, access to benefits, and disaster response. Additionally, legal reforms are still needed to amend outdated laws that perpetuate gender inequality. To strengthen MCW implementation, she said that there is an urgent need to enhance data collection, improve VAW desk functionality, enforce gender sensitivity training (GST), advocate for gender-fair media representation, and push for further legal reforms. While progress has been made, Ms. Mores emphasized that sustained efforts are necessary to fully realize the law's goals and ensure gender equality in all sectors. 

 During the open forum, a diverse range of questions was raised, covering the effectiveness of existing gender laws, the responsibilities of government institutions in combatting gender-based violence, and the role of youth in advancing gender advocacy. The speakers provided comprehensive responses, offering clarifications on legal interpretations and sharing best practices drawn from their professional experiences. 

 

 The session concluded with a closing message delivered by Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Officer-in-Charge of the Institutional Development Office. In her remarks, Dr. Lucero underscored the significance of collective efforts in upholding women's rights and ensuring the effective implementation of gender laws. She encouraged all participants to apply their learnings in their respective fields and to contribute actively to gender mainstreaming initiatives within their institutions and communities. 

 

 Moderated by Ms. Maria Crizelda M. Vertudez, GAD Coordinator from CvSU-Silang Campus, the webinar served as a platform for learning, dialogue, and advocacy, equipping participants with the knowledge and motivation to advance gender equality and inclusive progress in their respective spheres.

----- DOC | CvSU participates in CPD Region IV-A's First Quarter RPEB Meeting and Planning Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-participates-in-cpd-region-iv-as-first-quarter-rpeb-meeting-and-planning-workshop/ | 2025-03-11 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Center, joined the Commission on Population and Development (CPD) Region IV-A's 2025 First Quarter Regional Population Executive Board (RPEB) Meeting cum Planning Workshop held on March 6–7, 2025, at Hotel Casiana & Events Center in Tagaytay City, Cavite. 

 Representing CvSU were Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz, Officer-in-Charge of the GAD Resource Center; Ms. Kate Angeline S. Hernando, in-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation; and Mr. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, Training Coordinator of GAD Resource Center. 

 The event gathered representatives from 14 Regional Line Agencies (RLAs) and three State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), including Southern Luzon State University (SLSU), Batangas State University (BatStateU), and CvSU. These institutions collaborated to align their efforts with the Philippine Population and Development Plan of Action (PPD-POA) 2023–2028. 

 CPD-CALABARZON Regional Director Marilyn F. Ogaya welcomed all participants with a message of encouragement, stressing the significance of the activity in steering collective action and shared commitment. The first day focused on reviewing previous agreements from the 4th Quarter RPEB meeting, including updates on the inclusion of NYC CALABARZON as a non-voting member and the development of research templates with SUCs. Progress on the Registry of Barangay Inhabitants and Migrants (RBIM), partnership agreements, and the upcoming KATROPA Training were also discussed. 

 The second agenda is the sharing of the presentation of draft MOAs/MOUs to strengthen institutional partnerships. CvSU and SLSU expressed intent to participate in research on adolescent pregnancy, while BatStateU and the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) committed to presenting their findings on Indigenous Peoples in the next meeting. The Department of Agriculture (DA) IV-A encouraged SUCs to submit proposals for population-related research, as funding is available. 

 For the third agenda, RD Ogaya also discussed the harmonization of RBIM, CBMS, and BIMS data systems, clarifying distinctions and upcoming efforts to streamline data collection. A coordination meeting on this initiative is scheduled for April 22, 2025. 

 Other matters included the launch of the 2025 Rafael M. Salas Kaunlarang Pantao Award (RMSKPA) which aims to recognize outstanding LGU efforts in population and development from 2022 to 2024. CvSU will serve as a one of the members of the award's Search Committee. 

 During the afternoon session, participants drafted their agency-specific action plans aligned with the eight strategic pillars of the PPD-POA. These include responsible parenthood, adolescent health, labor force empowerment, inclusive development for marginalized sectors, and the integration of population goals into broader governance and policy frameworks. These outputs were finalized and presented on the second day for review by RD Ogaya and the CPD team. Final signed plans are due for submission by March 21, 2025. 

 The meeting concluded with announcements on upcoming RPEB sessions. The 2nd Quarter meeting is tentatively set for June 10, 2025, to be hosted by PhilHealth IV-B, while CvSU offered to host the 3rd Quarter session, continuing its proactive engagement in regional development efforts. 

 Through this initiative, CvSU reaffirms its commitment to fostering responsive, research-informed, and inclusive population and development programs, in line with national goals and regional priorities.

----- DOC | CvSU bags top 2 performing SUC with highest number of Level III-accredited programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-bags-top-2-performing-suc-with-highest-number-of-level-iii-accredited-programs/ | 2025-03-08 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is recognized as the top 2 performing State University and College (SUC) with the highest number of Level III programs accredited by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines, Inc. (AACCUP). 

 The plaque of recognition was awarded to CvSU during the 38th AACCUP National Conference on March 5-7, 2025 at the Marikina Polytechnic College in Sta. Elena, Marikina City. 

 Representing the University at the national conference were Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Planning and Development; Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services; Asst. Prof. Armina B. Pugay, Campus Administrator of CvSU Naic Campus; Dr. Lauro D. Pascua, Campus Administrator of CvSU CCAT Campus; Prof. Zannie I. Gamuyao, Faculty Regent; Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Director of Institutional Development Office; Prof. Nancy C. Alaras, Director of Pollution Control Office; and Prof. Ronan M. Cajigal. 

 With the theme “Elevate, Empower, and Expand QA in Higher Education,” the national conference served as a platform for academic leaders, quality assurance (QA) professionals, and accreditors nationwide to strengthen collaboration and innovation in enhancing QA standards in higher education.

----- DOC | CvSU tops February 2025 Criminology Licensure Examination | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-tops-february-2025-criminology-licensure-examination/ | 2025-03-08 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) celebrates the outstanding performance of its examinees in the February 2025 Licensure Examination for Criminologists. 

 The CvSU Main Campus is the top performing school (with 101-199 examinees) after posting a 98.35% passing rate (179/182) in the said licensure examination with a national passing rate of 60.50%. 

 Meanwhile, CvSU Bacoor City Campus recorded a 94% passing rate (47/50), ranking as the third top performing school with 30-50 examinees.  

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 22,245 out of 36,768 examinees hurdled the Criminology Licensure Examination given by the Board of Criminology. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/february-2025-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-twenty-20-working-days?fbclid=IwY2xjawI9wp9leHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHQXO1XwKY-pTexL1ilyMHHXNy2j81QHDkKC_j0XnTla9_VOeve3XGoT8dA_aem_reZaJJnvDPUAuUOKD1O45w

----- DOC | One Health in the Post-COVID World: CvSU's Commitment to a Gender-Responsive Holistic Approach | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/one-health-in-the-post-covid-world-cvsus-commitment-to-a-gender-responsive-holistic-approach/ | 2025-03-06 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Center, successfully conducted a seminar titled One Health in the Post-COVID World on March 5, 2025. 

 Held at the Babaylan Training Room, this event brought together faculty members and students from various colleges, including the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS), the College of Nursing (CON), the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR), the College of Medicine (COM), and the Department of Biological Sciences under the College of Arts and Sciences (DBS-CAS). 

 The seminar aimed to enhance participants' understanding of the One Health approach and its gender dimensions while fostering practical skills and interdisciplinary collaboration. One Health recognizes the intricate connections between human, animal, and environmental health, emphasizing the need for a collective response to global health challenges. A gender-responsive perspective ensures that health policies and interventions acknowledge and address the unique experiences, risks, and roles of all individuals, regardless of gender identity. 

 

 Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, Officer-in-Charge of the GAD Resource Center, set the stage with her opening remarks, stressing the importance of integrating gender-sensitive strategies into One Health policies. She emphasized that gender influences access to healthcare, exposure to risks, and participation in health solutions. By recognizing these disparities, inclusive and equitable interventions can be developed, ensuring that One Health initiatives benefit all members of society. 

 

 A highlight of the seminar was the lecture by Dr. Marcy J. Souza, Associate Dean and Professor at the University of Tennessee Knoxville College of Veterinary Medicine. She provided valuable insights into multidisciplinary collaboration in addressing zoonotic diseases and preventing future pandemics. Dr. Souza also underscored the necessity of diverse perspectives in developing One Health initiatives, advocating for equal representation and participation of individuals of all genders in health research and decision-making. 

 

 Dr. Rezin C. Bahia, Dean of CVMBS, concluded the seminar by presenting CvSU's proposed One Health Center. This initiative aims to promote optimal health outcomes by recognizing and addressing the interconnections between people, animals, plants, and their shared environment. The center will actively integrate gender-responsive research and outreach programs, ensuring that health solutions are equitable and inclusive. 

 The seminar served as a crucial platform for knowledge-sharing and collaboration among experts and students, reinforcing CvSU's role as a champion of gender-inclusive, sustainable, and effective health strategies in the post-COVID world.

----- DOC | CvSU kicks off National Women's Month Celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/03/cvsu-kicks-off-national-womens-month-celebration/ | 2025-03-04 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), with strong commitment to promote gender equality and inclusivity recently conducted the CvSU's Women's Month Kick-off Ceremony on March 3, 2025, at the University Quadrangle. 

 

 This year's celebration also marks a significant mark to the university as we also welcome the second female university president in the history of the university . Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro University President, officially commenced the event through an opening message where she emphasized that “These initiatives directly support the goals of the Magna Carta of Women, ensuring equitable access to resources and opportunities for all women. We believe that empowering women is not just a moral imperative, but a crucial step towards building a more just, prosperous, and equitable society.” 

 “I encourage everyone to actively participate in these events and to reflect on the significance of gender equality throughout the month. Let us work together to create a world where every woman has the opportunity to reach her full potential. Mabuhay ang kababaihan!,” Dr. Nuestro added. 

 The event “EmpowerHer: The Genre Remix Challenge” was actively participated by the following: CCAT Campus; Carmona Campus; College of Arts and Sciences (CAS); College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources; College of Engineering and Information Technology; and Cavite City Campus. 

 

 

 

 The participants showcased their talents by giving a new rendition of “Juana,” CvSU's official advocacy song for Women's Month. CCAT Campus was hailed as the champion, followed by Carmona Campus and CAS in second and third place, respectively. 

 

 Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, OIC Director of the Institutional Development Office; Ms. Sharon M. Isip (OIC Dean, Office of the Student Affairs and Services; and Prof. Jonell V. Ocampo, Faculty Member from CvSU Carmona Campus served as the judges. 

 Afterwards, the GADRC, in collaboration with the Public Affairs and Communications Office, officially launched the “Juana” advocacy song which aims to uplift women in different sectors with the vision to share the GAD advocacy to more people and across all media users. 

 The kick-off ceremony successfully concluded through a closing message delivered by Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, OIC Director, GADRC, wherein she urged everyone “to envision a world where women are not just celebrated on one day but uplifted every single day. Together, let us continue to pave the way for a brighter future, where equality reigns and every woman in the Philippines can thrive.” 

 

 The kick-off ceremony was attended by the members of the Administrative Council, faculty and staff, and students of the university.  Ms. Betsy Rose S. Fidel (GAD Coordinator) and Mr. King David J. Agreda, (CvSU MOVE KATROPA President, NGRP) served as the moderator of the said event.

----- DOC | Advancing Gender and Development: Strengthening GMEF Implementation through Strategic Means of Verification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/02/advancing-gender-and-development-strengthening-gmef-implementation-through-strategic-means-of-verification/ | 2025-02-20 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), held a “Workshop on the Preparation of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF) Means of Verifications (MOVs)” on February 17-18, 2025, at CvSU GADRC, Babaylan Training Room. 

 This activity aims to develop a thorough understanding of gender equality and gender and development (GAD) principles, strengthen trainers' capacity to deliver GAD-related content effectively, and promote an inclusive and respectful environment for all gender identities and expressions. 

 

 The event officially commenced with an opening message delivered by Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, where she emphasized the utilization of GMEF within the university. It was then followed by the presentation of the workshop objectives by Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC Staff. 

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda then led a comprehensive and practical workshop on GMEF where he emphasized the importance of integrating gender perspectives into institutional planning and budgeting processes to foster a more inclusive and equitable society. 

 On the second day of the workshop Ma. Criselda Vertudez, GAD Coordinator from Silang Campus, began by providing a recap of the topics discussed on Day 1, highlighting the key points as presented by Mr. Agreda. 

 Mr. Agreda then outlined how educational institutions can adopt a more gender-responsive approach by incorporating gender perspectives across four key dimensions: 

 Gender Lens Perspective – This approach involves analyzing gender dynamics, roles, and inequalities to understand their influence on experiences, opportunities, and outcomes. By applying a gender lens, institutions can prioritize marginalized groups, promote social justice, and ensure the equitable distribution of resources irrespective of gender. 

 Sustained Change through Comprehensive Strategies – Achieving lasting change requires the formulation and implementation of gender-sensitive policies, legislation, and institutional mechanisms that promote women's empowerment and gender equality. Mr. Agreda emphasized that bureaucratic gender mainstreaming should be driven by leadership, with gender equality embedded into everyday operations and organizational culture. This process must be championed by top management and supported by all staff members. 

 Integrating Gender Perspectives in Institutional Programs – Effective planning and implementation of programs require the integration of gender considerations into the design and execution of institutional plans while allocating resources to gender-responsive activities. 

 Embedding Gender in Core University Functions – Mr. Agreda underscored the importance of incorporating gender perspectives into the core functions of universities, including instruction, research, extension, and production. This holistic integration ensures comprehensive GAD planning and budgeting. He introduced the GAD Focal Point System (GFPS), a proactive body tasked with promoting, coordinating, and overseeing GAD initiatives within the institution. The GFPS plays a vital role in the continuous implementation, monitoring, and refinement of GAD-related projects and policies. 

 Following the establishment or reinforcement of the GFPS, Mr. Agreda stressed the importance of GAD capacity building through regular training programs. These programs should include gender sensitivity workshops and practical training on gender analysis tools, equipping staff in the integration of gender perspectives into their work. He emphasized that training must be an ongoing process that adapts to the evolving needs of the institution and community, thereby fostering an inclusive organizational culture. 

 He also discussed the role of gender audits as a critical tool for evaluating the effectiveness of GAD initiatives. By utilizing sex-disaggregated data and gender statistics, universities can identify successful practices and areas requiring improvement. These audits, Mr. Agreda noted, are not simply compliance measures, but essential instruments for driving meaningful progress towards gender equality. 

 Mr. Agreda highlighted the significance of maintaining a GAD database for gender-focused data collection and analysis. A comprehensive database enables institutions to track their progress, identify gaps in gender equality, and allocate resources effectively to implement targeted interventions. Data-driven decision-making is essential to ensure that future initiatives align with institutional goals and national gender mandates. 

 He further emphasized the necessity of applying gender analysis in policymaking, strategic planning, and program implementation. He urged participants to critically assess current practices by evaluating access, roles, and decision-making processes within their institutions to ensure that all genders benefit equitably from policies and programs. 

 The session also explored the PCW Memorandum Circular No. 2016-03, which introduced the Enhanced GMEF—a comprehensive framework designed to assess the progress of gender mainstreaming efforts. Mr. Agreda explained that the tool assists agencies in evaluating their practices, identifying strengths and areas for improvement, and supporting the formulation of annual GAD plans and budgets. The GMEF is primarily intended for use by GFPS members, program implementers, and relevant staff involved in planning, assessments, and evaluations. 

 

 Mr. Agreda also provided an in-depth explanation of the four entry points of the GMEF which as are as follows: Policy which includes official declarations of support, policy enhancements, and the application of GAD frameworks; People which involves the leaders, advocates, and participants engaged in gender mainstreaming, with an emphasis on management support and the recognition of GAD expertise; Enabling Mechanisms which comprise the GFPS, gender-disaggregated data, GAD monitoring and evaluation systems, and knowledge management structures; and Programs, Projects, and Activities (PPAs) which is an entry point that encompasses policy reviews, the development of gender-sensitive programs, information, education, and communication (IEC) campaigns, and maintaining updated GAD information resources. 

 In conclusion, Mr. Agreda presented practical examples and descriptors for each of the GMEF's entry points, thereby equipping participants with a robust understanding of how to apply the framework within their respective colleges or units. 

 The event officially concluded with a closing message delivered by Ms. Todoc, on behalf of the GADRC Director, where she extended her gratitude to all the participants who actively engaged on the said activity which aims to further improve the services and mainstreaming efforts of the university in advancing gender and development. 

 

 Ms. Betsy Rose S. Fidel served as the moderator for the two-day event.

----- DOC | CvSU GAD Resource Center conducts webinar on healthy relationships and prevention of early pregnancy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/02/cvsu-gad-resource-center-conducts-webinar-on-healthy-relationships-and-prevention-of-early-pregnancy/ | 2025-02-17 -----
In celebration of love beyond romance, Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), held a webinar titled “MY PULPOL LOVE: Equitable Pathways to Healthy Relationships and Prevention of Early Pregnancy” on February 13, 2025. 

 Conducted via Zoom and Facebook Live, the event gathered faculty, non-academic staff, students, and external participants to discuss relationship dynamics, responsible decision-making, and gender equity. 

 

 University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan, represented by Mr. Louigi M. Arayata, underscored the importance of gender equality and education in preventing early pregnancies. He emphasized that fostering informed and respectful relationships builds a foundation for empowered futures. 

 The webinar featured engaging discussions starting off with the topic “Crush Landing: Sureball Ka Na Ba?” by Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, Vice President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA. He explored the four stages of dating such as attraction, infatuation, commitment, and Filipino courtship traditions. 

 Prof. King David J. Agreda, President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA, highlighted the significance of relationship boundaries in “I'm Too Sexy (Responsible Sex): Relationship Boundaries,” stressing the risks of early sexual activity. 

 Meanwhile, Dr. Paulito V. Hilario from the College of Arts and Sciences, discussed mutual understanding and situationships, emphasizing their emotional impact and potential mental health risks. 

 One of the highlights of the event was the “Kasal o Kasal-kasalan” segment, where “Power Couple” Dr. Racquel G. Agustin and Mr. Jaime Zeus C. Agustin shared their long-distance love story, filled with challenges, financial struggles, and parenting hardships. Their journey emphasized commitment, communication, and enduring love. 

 

 In closing, Ms. Joanne R. Diloy from the Office of Student Affairs reminded attendees that love requires not just emotions but also commitment and respect. She encouraged everyone to spread love to family, friends, and colleagues, reinforcing the message with the Bible verse, “Love your neighbor as you love yourself.”

----- DOC | RAISE Southern Tagalog secures approval of PhP63.7-M from PCAARRD for AANR Tech Commercialization | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/02/raise-southern-tagalog-secures-approval-of-php63-7-m-from-pcaarrd-for-aanr-tech-commercialization/ | 2025-02-11 -----
The Department of Science and Technology's Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development (PCAARRD) Directors' Council (DC) and Governing Council (GC) have approved Cavite State University's (CvSU) request for funding to continue the Regional Agri-Aqua Innovation System Enhancement (RAISE) Program in Southern Tagalog. 

 The approval was granted through the technology transfer and promotion division (TTPD) led by Dir. Noel Catibog during their meetings held on July 16, 2024, and August 12, 2024, respectively. RAISE Phase 2 was approved with a total budget of PhP63,729,796.00. 

 The RAISE program, now entering its second phase, focuses on strengthening technology commercialization across Southern Tagalog. The program is designed around four key components: Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management (IPTBM), Agribusiness Hub (ABH), Agri-Aqua Technology Business Incubation (ATBI), and Knowledge Management (KM). A total of PhP29,282,489 has been allocated to CvSU to fund these regional initiatives under the leadership of Dr. Teddy Tepora who serves as the program leader. 

 Dr. Tepora will also oversee the IPTBM component, while the other components will be led by new project leaders: Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome for the ABH, Dr. Rowena R. Noceda for the ATBI, and Dr. Lloyd O. Balinado for KM. 

 The project is set to run for a period of two years, from October 1, 2024, to September 30, 2026, during which the initiatives will continue to foster innovation and strengthen the region's agribusiness and aquaculture sectors. 

 In addition to CvSU, 10 other institutions will collaborate in the implementation of the RAISE program. These include various organizations under each component, such as Batangas State University, Forest Products Research and Development Institute (FPRDI), Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU), Marinduque State University (MSU), Rizal Technological University (RTU), Romblon State University (RSU), Southern Luzon State University (SLSU), University of Rizal System (URS), University of the Philippines – Los Baños (UPLB), and Western Philippines University (WPU). Additionally, LSPU, FPRDI, and WPU will implement the ATBI component, contributing to a total of 17 approved projects under the RAISE Southern Tagalog Phase 2 initiative. 

 As part of Phase 2, a series of mentorship activities will be conducted to enhance key areas such as Intellectual Property Management, Technology Commercialization, Agri-business, ATBI Management, Technology Promotion, and Communication Planning. These sessions will be vital in equipping stakeholders with the skills and knowledge needed to navigate the complexities of technology commercialization. 

 Moreover, several important events will be organized, including Regional Technology Pitching, Networking Events, Information Caravans, National Spinoff Writeshop, and the National ATBI Summit. These activities aim to promote collaboration, showcase innovations, and provide opportunities for networking and knowledge exchange among key players in the agri-aqua sector. (by Rhuzel Leinster Dean J. Julian)

----- DOC | Strengthening Gender-Responsive Governance: Highlights from the 1st Semester RGADC Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/strengthening-gender-responsive-governance-highlights-from-the-1st-semester-rgadc-meeting/ | 2025-01-30 -----
The Regional Gender and Development Committee (RGADC) convened its 1st Semester 2025 Meeting on January 28, 2025, at the RDC Hall, National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) Region IV-A Building, Calamba City, as they discussed updates, accomplishments, and plans to enhance gender mainstreaming efforts in CALABARZON. 

 Among the key agenda items discussed was the inclusion of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources – Environmental Management Bureau Region IV-A as a new RGADC member, reinforcing the integration of gender perspectives in environmental policies and disaster risk reduction. 

 The 2024 RGADC Accomplishment Report highlighted initiatives such as the 2024 Regional Women's Month Celebration, the CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool (CGRP) Deepening Session, and the successful implementation of gender-responsive programs. 

 The revised 2025 RGADC Work Plan was also introduced, emphasizing capacity-building efforts, gender-disaggregated data utilization, and compliance with gender and development (GAD) policies. Additionally, the CALABARZON GAD Agenda 2025-2030 was presented, outlining a strategic framework to establish the region as a leader in gender mainstreaming. 

 Significant discussions included updates on the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG) and the revision of Violence Against Women and Children (VAWC) Intake Forms to align with current legal frameworks. The meeting also featured insights into the best practices of Los Baños in gender mainstreaming, including the integration of the GAD Lens into local government initiatives such as senior and childcare centers and the LB GAD Learning Circuit. 

 The meeting reaffirmed RGADC's commitment to strengthening gender-responsive governance in CALABARZON, ensuring inclusive and sustainable development in the region.

----- DOC | Dr. Nuestro named new CvSU President | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/dr-nuestro-named-new-cvsu-president/ | 2025-01-30 -----
Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro has been named as the fourth president of Cavite State University (CvSU). 

 The members of the CvSU Board of Regents elected Dr. Nuestro to become the next president of the University, succeeding Dr. Hernando D. Robles who retired in October 2024.  

 Having served as the University's Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Nuestro envisions CvSU as a premier global university by 2028. 

 In her presentation during the Public Forum for the Search for the 4th CvSU President, Dr. Nuestro emphasized her administration's goals centered on IDEAL: Inclusive and Accessible Education, Dynamic and Competitive Research and Innovation, Empowered Communities and Stronger Partnership, Accountable and Client-Centered Governance, and Long-lasting/Sustainable Resource Generation.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new licensed architects! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-licensed-architects/ | 2025-01-28 -----
Congratulations to Cavite State University's (CvSU) new architects! 

 A total of 17 out of 21 (80.95%) CvSU examinees passed the January 2025 Licensure Examination for Architects with a national passing rate of 58.71%. 

 #SHINECvSU 

 #TatakCvSU

----- DOC | CvSU joins Provincial Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS) 1st Quarter Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/cvsu-joins-provincial-gender-and-development-focal-point-system-gfps-1st-quarter-meeting/ | 2025-01-23 -----
The Provincial Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS) held its 1st Quarter Meeting on January 22, 2025, via Zoom, with representatives from various agencies discussing critical gender-related initiatives and policies. 

 Presided over by Mr. Angelo Amor Peñalba, Provincial Planning and Development Coordinator, the body tackled updates on previous agreements, the nomination of a Provincial GAD Focal Person, and GAD Audit 2025 indicators. The body also discussed the guidelines for GAD Plan and Budget preparations, report orientation, and adoption of Social Protection Plan 2023-2028. 

 The meeting concluded with the reaffirmation of the commitment to advancing gender-sensitive policies in the province. Future meetings will focus on finalizing key nominations and strengthening gender advocacy initiatives.

----- DOC | Advancing Gender Equality: Cavite's Public Hearing on the Revised GAD Code | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/advancing-gender-equality-cavites-public-hearing-on-the-revised-gad-code/ | 2025-01-22 -----
The Office of the Sangguniang Panlalawigan conducted a Public Hearing for Proposed Ordinance No. 142-2024 or “An Ordinance Revising Provincial Ordinance No. 240, Otherwise Known as 'The Revised Gender and Development Code of the Province of Cavite,'” on January 20, 2025, at the Sangguniang Panlalawigan Session Hall, New Capitol Building, Trece Martires City. 

 Hon. Rommel R. Enriquez, Chair of the Committee on Social Services, Family, Women, Children and the Elderly, presided over the Public Hearing. He began by acknowledging all attendees and thanking them for their support in advancing Gender and Development (GAD) initiatives in the Province of Cavite. 

 In her welcome remarks, Hon. Irene P. Bencito, Vice Chair of the Committee on Social Services, Family, Women, Children & the Elderly, emphasized how the GAD Code of the Province of Cavite serves as a comprehensive framework to promote gender equality and ensure the protection of women's rights within the province. She added that this revision reflects the province's commitment to updating and strengthening its policies on gender and development. 

 Ms. Michelle F. Alcid, Provincial Board Secretary, presented Proposed Ordinance No. 142-2024 which highlights the province's commitment to gender equality and the elimination of discrimination. The proposal includes proposed mechanisms to ensure women's rights in areas such as health, education, employment, and political participation; and initiatives to address specific gender issues, and that resources, monitoring, and evaluation are in place to support GAD programs and activities. 

 According to the Office of Legal Services, the ordinance will undergo further review before being signed by the respective signatories.

----- DOC | CvSU partners with ABS-CBN for Halalan 2025 coverage | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/cvsu-partners-with-abs-cbn-for-halalan-2025-coverage/ | 2025-01-21 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is among the institutions who partnered with Philippine broadcaster ABS-CBN to ensure a “peaceful, clean, and orderly” midterm elections on May 12, 2025. 

 This was formalized through the ABS-CBN's Halalan 2025 Covenant Signing on January 14, 2025 at Studio 10, ABS-CBN Compound in Quezon City. 

 Screenshot from the TV Patrol Livestream (January 14, 2025) 
 Prof. Tania Marie P. Melo, Director of the Public Affairs and Communications Office (PACO), and Ms. Nheslaine C. Eval, Information Officer III, represented CvSU during the covenant signing participated by 31 election partners composed of public and private agencies, media organizations, academic institutions, and civil society groups.  

 Prof. Tania Marie P. Melo, PACO Director, represents CvSU during the Halalan 2025 Covenant Signing (Screenshot from the ABS-CBN News Livestream of the ABS-CBN Halalan 2025 Covenant Signing with Election Partners) 
 Through the College of Arts and Sciences – Department of Communication (DComm) headed by its chairperson, Prof. Lisette D. Mendoza, in collaboration with the International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office (ILCLO) led by director Prof. Ma Veronica P. Peñaflorida, the University entered into this partnership which aims to bring to the public an in-depth and balanced news presentation – providing the most comprehensive election coverage that will reach as many communities as possible.  

 As part of this endeavor, ABS-CBN will also provide CvSU students and teachers with an on-campus training on fact checking and election reporting in preparation for Halalan 2025. The University will also be collaborating with the network on the coverage of election-related activities, and provision of subject matter experts and resource persons for ABS-CBN News platforms. 

 Inception meeting with representatives from DComm, ILCLO, and ABS-CBN News for the Halalan 2025 partnership (photo from the DComm Facebook page).

----- DOC | Empowering Advocates for Gender Equality: Highlights from the 2024 GAD Accomplishment Report Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/empowering-advocates-for-gender-equality-highlights-from-the-2024-gad-accomplishment-report-workshop/ | 2025-01-14 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), facilitated the “Workshop on the Preparation of 2024 Gender and Development (GAD) Accomplishment Report” from January 8-9, 2025, at the Babaylan Training Room. 

 This event brought together GAD Coordinators, GAD Alternates, and CvSU MOVE KATROPA (Men Opposed to Violence Against Women Everywhere – Kalalakihang Tapat sa Responsibilidad at Obligasyon sa Pamilya) officers to strengthen their skills in preparing comprehensive GAD Accomplishment Reports (ARs). 

 

 In his opening remarks, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension, emphasized the collective efforts of the CvSU community in advancing gender equality. 

 The workshop, facilitated by Dr. Renifer R. Francisco, a member of the National GAD Resource Pool, highlighted critical updates to GAD planning and budgeting in line with the PCW-DBM-NEDA Joint Memorandum Circular 2022-01. Dr. Francisco provided a step-by-step guide for completing GAD ARs, addressing challenges such as salary attributions and cost calculations. She underscored that unplanned yet relevant GAD activities could be included in the reports if aligned with the institution's GAD mandates. 

 

 Participants engaged in hands-on sessions to draft their reports, presenting and refining their outputs with expert guidance. On the second day, they received constructive feedback to enhance their submissions. Dr. Francisco also discussed audit considerations, emphasizing that GAD activities must constitute at least 5% of an agency's total appropriations. 

 In her closing message, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, reminded participants that true GAD advocacy comes from the heart. She assured them of the Center's unwavering support in addressing challenges and fostering impactful initiatives. 

 

 The two-day workshop concluded with renewed commitment from CvSU's GAD advocates to advance gender-responsive development, ensuring a more inclusive future for all. 

 The participants of the Workshop on the Preparation of 2024 GAD Accomplishment Report

----- DOC | Public forum for CvSU presidency held | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/public-forum-for-cvsu-presidency-held/ | 2025-01-09 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) held a public forum for the search for the next University President on 09 January 2025, 9:00 a.m. at the International Convention Center.  

 The five presidential candidates including Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, Dr. Hosea DL. Matel, Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, and Dr. Bernardo N. Sepeda appeared before the academic community to present their vision, plans and programs for CvSU. 

 During the said event, the aspirants also went through three rounds of questions as they addressed issues and concerns raised by the forum participants and representatives of administrative employees, faculty, students, alumni, and community.  

 A closed-door panel interview was also held in the afternoon wherein the candidates faced the members of the Search Committee for Presidency headed by Dr. Elsa P. Manarpaac.  

 In October 2024, the Board of Regents of CvSU formally opened the search for the fourth University President who will succeed Dr. Hernando D. Robles.  

 Watch the public forum through this link: https://www.facebook.com/share/v/189a9ADj3a/

----- DOC | Fabrication of Unmanned Ground Vehicle (including Materials and Labor) – Negotiated Procurement | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2025/01/fabrication-of-unmanned-ground-vehicle-including-materials-and-labor-negotiated-procurement/ | 2025-01-07 -----
MINUTES OF THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE AND BID BULLETIN

 

 Minutes of the Pre-bidding Conference 

 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 INVITATION TO APPLY FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TO BID 

 ITB 

 BID DOCUMENTS 

 BID DOCS 

 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

 

 SPECS

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new CPAs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-cpas/ | 2024-12-17 -----
Cavite State University congratulates its new Certified Public Accountants (CPAs)!  

 The University recorded an overall performance rating of 32.43% in the December 2024 Licensure Examination for CPAs. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 3,058 out of 10,136 passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Accountancy in 18 testing centers across the country.

----- DOC | CvSU produces new LPTs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-produces-new-lpts/ | 2024-12-17 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) produces new licensed professional teachers. 

 The University celebrates the remarkable achievements of the following campuses in the September 2024 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT) Secondary Level:   

 – CvSU Carmona Campus -Top 4 Performing School (with 50+ examinees)   

 – CvSU Silang Campus – Top 6 Performing School (with 50+ examinees)   

 – CvSU Main Campus – Top 7 Performing School (with 300+ examinees)   

 CvSU also congratulates Mr. Reynan D. Manaig from CvSU Carmona Campus for achieving a passing rate of 94.20%, earning him the third spot in the licensure examination (secondary level).   

 The Professional Regulation Commission has announced that 20,025 out of 44,002 examinees (45.53%) for elementary level, and 48,875 out of 85,926 examinees (56.89%) for secondary level successfully passed the said licensure examination.

----- DOC | CvSU is 3rd top performing school in December 2024 ABELE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-is-3rd-top-performing-school-in-december-2024-abele/ | 2024-12-17 -----
Cavite State University has achieved an overall performance rating of 80.88% (55/68), ranking as third top performing school with more than 50 examinees in the December 2024 Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers Licensure Exam (ABELE). 

 The University also proudly congratulates Engr. Angelyn Deuda Agustino, as she bagged the 7th Place with (85.16%) rating among the 1,479 out of 2,625 who successfully passed the said examination.  

 The ABELE was given by the Board of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering in N.C.R., Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Rosales, Tacloban, and Tuguegarao in December 2024.

----- DOC | CvSU produces 51 new registered Civil Engineers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-produces-51-new-registered-civil-engineers/ | 2024-12-05 -----
Congratulations to our new registered Civil Engineers!

 Cavite State University posted an overall performance rating of 59.30% (51/86) in the November and December 2024 Civil Engineers Licensure Examination.

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 6,835 out of 18,436 examinees passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Civil Engineering in 18 testing centers all over the country.

----- DOC | CvSU places 4th runner-up in 2024 STRASUC Culture and Arts Festival | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-places-4th-runner-up-in-2024-strasuc-culture-and-arts-festival/ | 2024-12-04 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is declared as the fourth runner-up overall in the recently concluded 8th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges – Culture and Arts Festival (STRASUC-CAF) 2024 held at the University of Rizal System (URS) – Morong Campus, November 25-29, 2024. 

 Embodying this year's theme “Tayo na sa Timog Katagalugan, Kultura at Sining ay Isulong!,” CvSU proudly earned top spots in visual and dramatic arts, musical, and dance categories with Main Campus' Cultural Dance Troupe (Folk Dance) and Student Artiste Society (StARS) (Short and Sweet Play), and CCAT Campus' Jed Celestial (On-the-Spot Poster Making) emerging as first place overall. 

 Bagging the third place overall are StARS for Contemporary Dance category, and Shannon Philline L. Millamena for painting. 

 Furthermore, Main Campus' Michail Angelique Salamatin secured fifth place overall for Vocal Solo (Kundiman), as well as Imus Campus' Joseph Kai Robin Castaneda and Cedrieck Peñaranda (Vocal Duet) and Street Dance Team. 

 Lastly, John Paolo B. Del Rosario was hailed as Mr. Photogenic 2024 in STRASUC Festival King and Queen event. 

 A total of 66 CvSU student-artists performers from different colleges and campuses joined this year's 8th STRASUC-CAF participated by over 11 state universities and colleges, including URS, Batangas State University, Laguna State Polytechnic University, Mindoro State University, Marinduque State University, Occidental Mindoro State University, Palawan State University, Southern Luzon State University, University of the Philippines – Los Baños, and Western Philippines University.

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 5th in November 2024 Nurses licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/12/cvsu-ranks-5th-in-november-2024-nurses-licensure-exam/ | 2024-12-02 -----
Cavite State University congratulates its new Registered Nurses! 

 The University ranked fifth (with 100 or more examinees) in the November 2024 Philippine Nurses Licensure Examination (PNLE) with a 99.45% passing rate (182 out of 183), surpassing the national passing rate of 84.99%. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 29,349 out of 34,534 examinees passed the November 2024 PNLE given by the Board of Nursing in 19 testing centers in the country.

----- DOC | Kick-off ceremony: 18-Day Campaign to End VAW | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/kick-off-ceremony-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw/ | 2024-11-26 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) community gathered to show their support to the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women (VAW) with the 2024 theme “VAW Bigyang-Wakas, Ngayon na ang Oras!” 

 The kickoff ceremony on November 25, 2024 highlighted a parade, street dance competition, and Pledge of Commitment to End VAW by CvSU officials, faculty members, employees, and students from different units, offices, colleges, and campuses. 

 Under the recurring theme for 2022-2027, “UNiTEd for a VAW-free Philippines,” the 18-day campaign is being observed from November 25 to December 12 of every year. For this year, the campaign highlights the urgency of the advocacy in line with the commemoration of the 20th year since the signing of the Anti-VAWC Act of 2004 (Republic Act No. 9262).

----- DOC | CvSU is top performing school in Agriculturists licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-is-top-performing-school-in-agriculturists-licensure-exam/ | 2024-11-26 -----
Cavite State University is the top performing school (with 40 to 99 examinees) with a 92.50% overall passing rate in the November 2024 Agriculturists Licensure Examination. 

 The University also congratulates Ms. Zaira Marey L. Soriano for ranking eighth place (88.51% rating) among the 3,628 out of 7,144 examinees who successfully passed the said examination given by the Board of Agriculture in 18 testing centers across the country.

----- DOC | CvSU is 3rd top performing school in Midwifery board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-is-3rd-top-performing-school-in-midwifery-board-exam/ | 2024-11-21 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is the third top performing school with an overall passing rate of 96.61% (57 out of 59) in the November 2024 Licensure Examination for Midwives. 

 The University also produced two topnotchers in the said licensure examination: 

 Top 5: Jahnah Nikos M. Corpus (91.25%) 

 Top 9: Vhan Antonette A. Escorido (91.00%) 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 3,997 out of 5,398 passed the November 2024 Midwifery board exam given by the Board of Midwifery in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga.

----- DOC | Madalas na Katanungan o Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Tungkol sa Proseso ng College Admission sa Cavite State University | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/madalas-na-katanungan-o-frequently-asked-questions-faqs-tungkol-sa-proseso-ng-college-admission-sa-cavite-state-university/ | 2024-11-19 -----
Narito ang mga Madalas na Katanungan o Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) tungkol sa proseso ng college admission sa Cavite State University. 

 
 Para sa ilan pang detalye at impormasyon, maaaring bumisita at makipag-ugnayan sa opisyal na Facebook page ng Cavite State University – Main OSAS

----- DOC | First Semester SY 2025-2026 Application for Admission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/first-semester-sy-2025-2026-application-for-admission/ | 2024-11-19 -----
𝐀𝐏𝐏𝐋𝐈𝐂𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐀𝐃𝐌𝐈𝐒𝐒𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐅𝐈𝐑𝐒𝐓 𝐒𝐄𝐌𝐄𝐒𝐓𝐄𝐑 𝐒.𝐘. 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟱-𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟲 𝐢𝐧 𝐂𝐀𝐕𝐈𝐓𝐄 𝐒𝐓𝐀𝐓𝐄 𝐔𝐍𝐈𝐕𝐄𝐑𝐒𝐈𝐓𝐘 𝐛𝐞𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐬 𝐨𝐧 𝐍𝐎𝐕𝐄𝐌𝐁𝐄𝐑 𝟭𝟴, 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟰. 

 
 𝐒𝐂𝐀𝐍 𝐓𝐇𝐄 𝐐𝐑 𝐂𝐎𝐃𝐄 𝐎𝐑 𝐅𝐎𝐋𝐋𝐎𝐖 𝐓𝐇𝐄 𝐋𝐈𝐍𝐊 𝐓𝐎 𝐀𝐏𝐏𝐋𝐘: 

 𝐒𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐭 𝐨𝐟 𝐀𝐩𝐩𝐥𝐢𝐜𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧: 𝐍𝐨𝐯𝐞𝐦𝐛𝐞𝐫 𝟭𝟴, 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟰 

 
 𝐂𝐯𝐒𝐔 – 𝐌𝐀𝐈𝐍 𝐂𝐀𝐌𝐏𝐔𝐒: 

 https://admission.cvsu.edu.ph/ 

 
 For more information, please read and follow the instructions in the photos provided. 

 
 To know more about Frequently Asked Questions, check this link below: 

 https://www.facebook.com/CaviteStateU/posts/pfbid035fkefvY6sxfFLyEpA8m3F7XqZLQV936fzsixdZ1tn5jB1q8kv8G8pDur1eypa5aVl

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 3rd overall in STRASUC Olympics 2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-ranks-3rd-overall-in-strasuc-olympics-2024/ | 2024-11-07 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Hornets emerged as third place overall in the 8th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges (STRASUC) Olympics 2024 held in Puerto Princesa City, Palawan, October 21-25. 

 Securing 35 gold, 57 silver, and 39 bronze medals, CvSU ranked third behind this year's champion Palawan State University (PSU) with 123 gold, 91 silver, and 82 bronze medals; and runner-up Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU) with 76 gold, 54 silver, and 39 bronze medals.  

 CvSU raked in medals in taekwondo, badminton, arnis, athletics, karatedo, 3×3 basketball, table tennis, volleyball, and beach volleyball.   

 With the theme “Unity in Diversity, Celebrating Athletic Excellence,” the 2024 STRASUC Olympics hosted by PSU featured the following sporting events: arnis, archery, athletics, badminton, 3×3 basketball, beach volleyball, chess, taekwondo, karatedo, dance sports, sepak takraw, swimming, billiards, lawn tennis, and table tennis.  

 Participated by over 2,000 delegates, CvSU Hornets joined other competing SUCs in Southern Tagalog including PSU, LSPU, Batangas State University, Marinduque State University, Mindoro State University, Occidental Mindoro State College, Romblon State University, Southern Luzon State University, University of Rizal System, University of the Philippines Los Baños, and Western Philippines University.

----- DOC | CvSU produces 72 new licensed veterinarians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-produces-72-new-licensed-veterinarians/ | 2024-11-05 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) produced 72 new licensed veterinarians in the October 2024 Veterinarians Licensure Examination. 

 CvSU achieved an overall passing rate of 67.92% (72 out of 106), with Dr. Dei Anne Gatpandan Adona securing the sixth place with 86.98% rating. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 633 out of 1,349 (46.92%) passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Veterinary Medicine in the NCR, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Rosales, and Tuguegarao. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/october-2024-veterinarians-licensure-examination-results-released-two-2-working-days/7759?fbclid=IwY2xjawGWP01leHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHXGGPh79ewrTU28SxtyoFZV-gSI4VNlMnAJ8D2MN8yMJ_rMx7KI58vSMfg_aem_iiFt-KJPGJmYJwA5dAkC3g

----- DOC | CvSU is 3rd top performing SUC in 2023 ARTA Report Card Survey 2.0 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-is-3rd-top-performing-suc-in-2023-arta-report-card-survey-2-0/ | 2024-11-04 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) received the Anti-Red Tape Authority (ARTA) Report Card Survey (RCS) Silver Award during the ARTA RCS Awards held at the Conrad Manila in Pasay City. 

 As the third top-performing among 150 state universities and colleges surveyed, CvSU achieved a very satisfactory rating of 93.52% in the 2023 RCS 2.0 cycle, reflecting the institution's exemplary compliance with the requirements pursuant to Republic Act No. 11032 (Ease of Doing Business and Efficient Government Service Delivery Act of 2018). 

 The said award was received by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU immediate past president; Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, OIC of the Office of the University President; Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Planning and Development; and Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension.  

 For the RCS 2.0, the ARTA assessed the government agencies' quality of service delivery and adherence to RA No. 11032, with key performance indicators including submission of compliance reports, client satisfaction measurement, and awards and recognition.

----- DOC | Project Untold: Life and legacy of Don Severino de las Alas | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/project-untold-life-and-legacy-of-don-severino-de-las-alas/ | 2024-11-04 -----
Members of the De las Alas family officially turned over to Cavite State University (CvSU) the video documentary “Project Untold” about the life and legacy of Don Severino de las Alas.  

 The turnover ceremony was held at the CvSU Historical and Cultural Museum on October 30, 2024, attended by the De las Alas clan and officials and guests from CvSU and partner institutions. 

 An educator, public servant, and philanthropist, Don Severino donated a portion of his land to the people of Indang for the establishment of an intermediate school, now known as CvSU.   

 Project Untold is a project of Don Severino's family in cooperation with CvSU; Municipality of Indang, Cavite; and Cavite Studies Center – De La Salle University Dasmariñas (DLSU-D).  

 Dr. Celina de las Alas Salazar-Tady welcomed the guests led by Hon. Aidel Paul G. Belamide, Cavite 5th District Provincial Board Member; Dr. Hernando D. Robles, immediate past president of CvSU; and Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, OIC of the CvSU Office of the University President.  

 Also present were CvSU officials including Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension; Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Vice President for Planning and Development;  Assoc. Prof. Julie S. Guevara, Administrator of CvSU Child Development Center; Ms. Adora Joy T. Plete, Chief Administrative Officer; and Ms. Tania Marie P. Melo, Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office. 

 The family also awarded plaques of appreciation and bouquets to the people behind the documentary, including Dr. Robles; BM Belamide; Mr. Nepomuceno; Dr. Talactac; Dr. Magcawas; Ms. Plete; Ms. Guevara; Dr. Jan Phillip D. Mallari, Director for Cavite Studies Center; Mr. Daniel M. Anciano, Cavite Studies Center; Ms. Mylene B. Delatado, Cavite Studies Center; Prof. Gil D. Ramos, CvSU Social Sciences Department; Asst. Prof. Joether A. Francisco, Chairperson of the CvSU Historical and Cultural Committee; and Cine Luna team Ms. Celine Peñaflorida, Mr. Mikhail Pineda, and Mr. Stephen Tujon.    

 The documentary “Echoes of Indang: Don Severino's Untold Story” is now streaming on the official YouTube page of Don Severino de las Alas: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmxnN_BI4wg

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates its new licensed Electronics Engineers and Electronics Technicians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/11/cvsu-congratulates-its-new-licensed-electronics-engineers-and-electronics-technicians/ | 2024-11-04 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its graduates who successfully passed the October 2024 Electronics Engineers (ECE) and Electronics Technicians (ECT) licensure examinations! 

 CvSU Carmona Campus recorded a 100% passing rate (2/2) in the ECT board exam, while CvSU Main Campus achieved an 88.89% passing rate (24/27), with Engr. Jack Anderson M. Melgar placing third with a 90% passing rate. 

 Meanwhile, CvSU posted an overall passing rate of 67.86% (19/28) in the ECE licensure examinations. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 45.99% (999 of 2,172) passed the licensure exams for electronics engineers, while 70.77% (1,126 of 1,591) hurdled the board exam for electronics technicians. 

 See full results: https://prc.gov.ph/article/october-2024-electronics-engineers-and-electronics-technicians-licensure-examinations?fbclid=IwY2xjawGPrZVleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHZ–CYn0kFes4D7WNG810C39ZVLfvT7uMJzfWu0NApQkVvlgAdWWk1a1zQ_aem_XUudQ4b_2p9Jyi3IbyYwtw

----- DOC | CvSU representatives join CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool Deepening Session | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/cvsu-representatives-join-calabarzon-gad-resource-pool-deepening-session/ | 2024-10-17 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) representatives joined the CALABARZON Gender and Development Resource Pool (CGRP) Deepening Session on October 14-15, 2024, in General Trias City, Cavite. 

 Organized by the CALABARZON Regional Development Council's Gender and Development Committee, the session aimed to enhance the technical skills of CGRP members in supporting gender and development (GAD) initiatives. 

 Attendees from CvSU included Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Head of the Training and Courseware Development Division of Extension Services; Mr. King David J. Agreda, faculty member from the Cavite City Campus; and Ms. Evelyn F. Grueso, faculty member from the College of Education. 

 During the two-day session, experts discussed key tools and frameworks like the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Gender-Responsive Local Government Unit (GeRL) Assessment Tool, the GAD Focal Point System Functionality Assessment Tool, and the Localization of the Magna Carta of Women. These sessions focused on promoting women's rights, enhancing GAD responsiveness in local government, and assessing the effectiveness of GAD initiatives. 

 The event concluded with participants renewing their commitment to advancing gender equality in the region. The session equipped CvSU representatives and other GAD practitioners with valuable knowledge and tools to champion gender-responsive policies and initiatives in CALABARZON. 

 Reference/Source: https://calabarzon.neda.gov.ph/2024/10/17/calabarzon-rgadc-gears-for-emerging-gad-challenges/?fbclid=IwY2xjawGedPJleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHdX8tKAmN-12xgWpArBOQ-JSQL8XWfDswIGp78bR5421SBGzggSFX_-oxg_aem_amECKZ_elLgZZM5ljE0g4A

----- DOC | Empowering communities through inclusive breast cancer initiatives | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/empowering-communities-through-inclusive-breast-cancer-initiatives/ | 2024-10-16 -----
The Cavite State University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a transformative event titled “Transforming Breast Cancer Awareness to the Foreground with Inclusive Initiatives” on October 14, 2024, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 This online gathering brought together voices from healthcare, advocacy, and academia to foster a more inclusive and compassionate approach to breast cancer awareness. 

 

 Dr. Gerald B. Natanauan, Assistant Dean of the College of Medicine, opened the event with a powerful message on the need for breast cancer awareness that reaches everyone, regardless of gender, background, or socioeconomic status. Dr. Natanauan emphasized that transforming awareness into inclusive and impactful action is essential to saving lives and reaching underserved communities. His words set the tone for a day of learning, collaboration, and commitment to making breast cancer education accessible and meaningful for all. 

 Throughout the session, expert speakers delved into crucial topics such as the importance of early detection, the unique challenges faced by marginalized communities, and the psychosocial impact of breast cancer on patients and their families. Dr. Rosalyn C. Panao's presentation, “Breast Cancer 101,” provided essential insights into risk factors, symptoms, and screening practices, while she also discussed the disparities in access to care in low-income areas. She emphasized that breast cancer awareness should include a commitment to breaking down barriers and improving healthcare access across communities. 

 

 Ms. Jean Camille M. Zamora spoke about the psychosocial needs of breast cancer patients and survivors, highlighting the importance of mental health support, community solidarity, and compassionate care. She reminded participants that healing goes beyond the physical, stressing the need for supportive environments where patients can share their fears, find solace, and regain their strength. Her discussion of support groups and counseling as essential resources resonated deeply, emphasizing that no one should face cancer alone. 

 

 Ms. Kieth S. Sixon, Associate Professor II at the College of Nursing, discussed “Advocacy Strategies for Inclusive Breast Cancer Awareness” in the Philippines. She highlighted that 65% of breast cancer cases are diagnosed in advanced stages due to limited access to screening, especially in rural areas. She emphasized the importance of advocacy in changing this narrative, stating that initiatives aimed at reducing stigma, increasing accessibility, and lowering costs can significantly improve early detection rates. 

 

 Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of the College of Nursing, closed the event with an uplifting statement that tied together the day's observations, highlighting that transforming breast cancer awareness is not just a goal but a necessity. She emphasized that inclusive breast cancer initiatives are about building a compassionate community where everyone has access to the resources and support they need. 

 

 Through this webinar, the CvSU GADRC has paved the way for a more inclusive approach to breast cancer awareness—one that truly leaves no one behind.

----- DOC | CvSU to hold the 3rd Int'l Research Conference on Gender and Criminal Justice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/cvsu-to-hold-the-3rd-intl-research-conference-on-gender-and-criminal-justice/ | 2024-10-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) will hold the 3rd International Research Conference on Gender and Criminal Justice, December 10-12, 2024, at the CvSU International Convention Center in Indang, Cavite.  

 With the theme “The Power of Research: Advancing Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment,” this hybrid conference will be held in observance of the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women, a global movement aiming to raise awareness and inspire action to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls. 

 The interdisciplinary conference provides a platform to explore gender and the criminal justice system in different contexts, and tackle the challenges, latest research, and best practices in promoting gender equality. It centers on the themes Sustainable Development Goals 5 – Gender Equality, 10 – Reduced Inequalities, 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities, and 16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.  

 This activity is spearheaded by the CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center and the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension Services in collaboration with the Philippine Association of Research Managers, Inc. (PHILARM).  

 Interested participants may send their papers and presentation proposals from across a spectrum of disciplines, including but not limited to law, anthropology, criminology, security, education, ethnic studies, gender studies, political science, psychology, public policy, social work, migration, and sociology. Cross-cultural and cross-regional comparisons are also encouraged.  

 Abstracts may be submitted on or before November 14, 2024 to 3rdInternationalResearchCon@gmail.com . The registration link and mechanics may be accessed here: https://www.facebook.com/share/p/JBg8jNjf1d9jxH7T/ .

----- DOC | CvSU concludes UGames 2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/cvsu-concludes-ugames-2024/ | 2024-10-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) colleges and satellite campuses battled it out for glory and honor in this year's University Games and 3rd Angara's Cup with the theme “CHEERS: Championing Health, Excellence, and Engagement through Recreation and Sports,” October 7-11, at the Main Campus in Indang, Cavite.  

 Nearly a thousand athletes from CvSU's 22 colleges and satellite campuses competed in the following sports: archery, arnis, athletics, badminton, basketball (3×3 and 5×5), baseball, billiards, chess, esports (Mobile Legends: Bang Bang), football, futsal, karatedo, lawn tennis, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, and volleyball. 

 Advanced games for basketball, volleyball, football, badminton, table tennis, and lawn tennis were also held on September 30 – October 4 at the Main Campus. 

 The CvSU – CCAT Pistons emerged as overall champions with 49 gold, 15 silver, and 31 medals followed by Bacoor Stingrays (42 gold, 37 silver, 35 bronze), and Imus Heroes (32 gold, 40 silver, and 31 bronze). 

 The 2024 University Games was hosted by the College of Engineering and Information Technology and Cavite City Campus, with Cavite 1st District Rep. Ramon Jolo B. Revilla III, Sen. Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go, Mr. Jasper Nuñez from the Office of Sen. Sonny M. Angara, and Ms. Gene Pahati from the Office of Sen. Pia S. Cayetano giving their inspirational messages to the delegates.

----- DOC | Nominations open for next CvSU President | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/nominations-open-for-next-cvsu-president/ | 2024-10-15 -----
The Board of Regents of Cavite State University (CvSU) has formally opened the search for the next University President. 

 According to the published Notice of Search for Presidency, interested applicants may submit their documents on or before October 31, 2024 at 5:00 pm.  

 The applicants for CvSU Presidency shall have the following minimum qualifications: 

 
 Not less than 35 years old and not a day older than the 61st birthday at the time of the expiration of the term of the incumbent President; 

 A Filipino citizen; 

 A doctorate degree holder; 

 With proven track record as SUC/LUC administrator or high-level management executive/administrator (public or private sector) for at least five years; 

 Must not have been convicted for a crime involving moral turpitude, or an offense punishable by imprisonment for a period exceeding six years, or suspended administratively for 12 months, or dismissed from the service.  

 
 Dr. Hernando D. Robles' successor will be the fourth President of CvSU. 

 The copy of the full notice can be accessed here: https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/notice-of-search-for-presidency/

----- DOC | Empowering research and extension practice through gender integration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/empowering-research-and-extension-practice-through-gender-integration/ | 2024-10-10 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), organized a two-day workshop titled “Gender Lens in Academia—Harmonizing Research and Extension Practices” on October 7-8, 2024, at the Technology Demonstration Farm in Indang, Cavite. 

 The workshop aimed to enhance the ability of CvSU faculty researchers, extensionists, and coordinators to integrate gender considerations into their academic and outreach activities, fostering a more gender-responsive research and extension culture. 

 The first day began with an overview of the workshop's objectives by Ms. Maureen Cayzie A. Salazar, followed by a session on Gender and Development (GAD) concepts by Prof. King David J. Agreda. He discussed pressing gender issues such as economic marginalization, gender-based violence, and gender stereotyping, emphasizing the importance of gender analysis in addressing these issues. Prof. Agreda also introduced the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG), a key tool for ensuring gender-responsive project design and evaluation. Participants engaged in a hands-on activity where they applied the HGDG framework to prepared research papers, learning how to integrate gender considerations into their work. 

 

 On the second day, participants reviewed and presented their group work from Day 1, demonstrating how they applied the HGDG to various research papers. The session included a focus on technical fields, such as agriculture and aquaculture, where gender integration is often challenging. Participants learned how to apply gender analysis to these studies, showing that gender perspectives can enhance research across disciplines. The day also included a review of an Extension Service Proposal from Imus City Campus, further reinforcing the importance of gender integration in extension work. 

 The workshop concluded with a ceremony recognizing participants' engagement. Dr. Agnes B. Alimboyuguen delivered the closing remarks where she emphasized the importance of continuing to apply gender-responsive practices in both research and extension activities. 

 Participants were awarded Certificates of Appreciation, marking a significant step in CvSU's efforts to create a more inclusive and gender-responsive academic environment. 

 

 Day 1 participants of Gender Lens in Academia – Harmonizing Research and Extension Practices 
 Day 2 participants of Gender Lens in Academia – Harmonizing Research and Extension Practices

----- DOC | 'Safe Spaces, Big Impact!' – CvSU empowers influencers to champion online safety | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/10/safe-spaces-big-impact-cvsu-empowers-influencers-to-champion-online-safety/ | 2024-10-01 -----
Cavite State University's (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted an impactful event, “Safe Spaces, Big Impact! How Influencers Can Champion Online Safety for All” on September 26, 2024. 

 This virtual event, held via Zoom and Facebook Live in celebration of Cybersecurity Awareness Month, aimed to equip social media influencers and everyday users with tools to promote safe and inclusive digital spaces. 

 The event attracted thousands of participants, majority of which are women (65.84%), highlighting a broad commitment to online safety. The program had three core goals: raising awareness of gender-based online harassment, equipping influencers with tools for online safety, and encouraging advocacy for respectful digital behavior. 

 This activity opened with remarks from Dr. Marlon R. Pereña, emphasizing the importance of responsible internet use amid rising cyber risks. After an engaging game to energize participants, the first discussion was led by cybersecurity expert Col. Francel Margareth Padilla-Taborlupa. She focused on the cyber risks linked to geopolitical tensions, specifically around the West Philippine Sea, emphasizing the need for cybersecurity resilience, especially against misinformation and privacy-invasive apps. 

 

 Following this, Atty. Chel Diokno delivered a talk on the responsibilities of social media influencers in promoting safe online spaces, particularly through a gender lens. He discussed key legislations including the Safe Spaces Act, the Anti-Bullying Act, and the Data Privacy Act, urging influencers to be advocates for truth and respectful interactions online. 

 

 The event wrapped up with an open forum and closing remarks from Prof. Emeline C. Guevarra who reinforced the need to empower influencers as champions of online safety. Through this activity, CvSU's GADRC effectively highlighted the role of influencers in creating inclusive digital spaces, fostering a collective responsibility for online respect and safety. 

 

 The participants of the webinar on “Safe Spaces, Big Impact! How Influencers Can Champion Online Safety for All.”

----- DOC | Bicol University CGAD explores best practices with CvSU GADRC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/09/bicol-university-cgad-explores-best-practices-with-cvsu-gadrc/ | 2024-09-25 -----
As the main actor in forwarding gender mainstreaming efforts in their University, the Bicol University (BU) Center for Gender and Development (BUCGAD) sought to learn the best practices of Cavite State University's (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) through a benchmarking visit on September 24, 2024. 

 While establishing their Center in 2016, the Gender and Development (GAD) Coordinators of BU's campuses and units welcomed the initiatives and experiences of the CvSU GADRC to refine their own. Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC staff, presented CvSU's best practices, following the four entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework which serves as the foundation for CvSU's efforts. Ms. Todoc discussed the policies of the University that helped forward GADRC's campaigns, the Enabling Mechanisms that interact with stakeholders, and the implemented programs, activities, and projects. 

 Ms. Todoc also outlined the people involved in gender mainstreaming, emphasizing how the support from the top management has enabled them to mobilize the entire community, and how it has been an important factor in the University's achievement as the four-time recipient of the Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon. 

 Afterwards, BUCGAD Director Dr. Noel Rafer shared her key insights from Ms. Todoc's discussion, and presented their University's best practices, highlighting the available facilities, services, and publications. 

 Both universities were able to learn from each other, with BUCGAD's GAD Coordinators expressing their gratitude for the eye-opening insights that they can apply in their Center and University. 

 Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC Secretariat, presenting CvSU's best practices for GAD 
 

 Delegates from Bicol University listen to CvSU's GAD best practices. 
 

 During the open forum, participants share their ideas and discuss best practices.

----- DOC | CvSU is 5th top performing school in September 2024 Social Worker board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/09/cvsu-is-5th-top-performing-school-in-september-2024-social-worker-board-exam/ | 2024-09-24 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is the fifth top performing school with 93.75% passing rate (60 out of 64 examinees) in the September 2024 Licensure Examination for Social Workers. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 4,587 out of 7,113 examinees (64.50%) passed the said licensure examination given by the Board for Social Workers in NCR, Baguio, Cebu, and Davao in September 2024. 

 See full results here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/september-2024-licensure-examination-social-workers-results-released-three-3-working-days

----- DOC | A benchmarking visit from Mindanao State University | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/09/a-benchmarking-visit-from-mindanao-state-university/ | 2024-09-12 -----
In pursuit of continuous learning and improvement in institutional systems and programs, Mindanao State University (MSU) conducted a benchmarking visit to Cavite State University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) on September 10, 2024. 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI, University President, along with team members from CvSU's GADRC and Public Affairs and Communications Office, warmly welcomed the delegation from MSU. The visit was an opportunity for both institutions to exchange valuable insights and best practices in gender and development. 

 During the visit, Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, GADRC Staff Member, presented CvSU's notable achievements in gender and development, guided by the four entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF): Policy, People, Enabling Mechanisms, and Programs, Activities, and Projects (PAPs). She emphasized that CvSU's recognition as a four-time Most Outstanding GAD Implementer is due to strong leadership support and active collaboration with stakeholders. 

 This visit highlights the importance of mutual learning and shared commitment to advancing gender equity and inclusion in educational institutions. 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU President, welcoming the visitors from the Mindanao State University 
 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication, GADRC, discussing the CvSU's Best Practices on GAD through the four (4) Entry Points of Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF). 
 

 During the open forum, participants share their ideas and discuss best practices. 
 

 The delegates of Mindanao State University with CvSU President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles

----- DOC | 9th Gender and Development Research Conference: A Leap Forward | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/09/9th-gender-and-development-research-conference-a-leap-forward/ | 2024-09-09 -----
To advance gender equity in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), in collaboration with the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension (OVPRE), successfully conducted the 9 th Gender and Development (GAD) Research Conference with the theme “Future-Forward Gender Equity: Shaping Opportunities and Challenges Together” on September 3, 2024, at the International Convention (ICON) Center, CvSU, Indang, Cavite as part of the Futures Thinking Week Research Symposium. 

 The event commenced with an opening message by Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension. Dr. Talactac extended his gratitude to the university leadership, OVPRE heads, discussants, and participants. He expressed hope for a productive day despite the disruptions caused by the typhoon. 

 University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, delivered an inspirational message, emphasizing the significance of research and innovation in addressing challenges such as climate change, waste management, and disaster mitigation. He encouraged researchers to focus on studies that offer practical solutions for societal issues. 

 Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Director of the Research Center, introduced the keynote speaker, Dr. Carmel P. Matabang, Assistant Regional Director of NEDA Calabarzon, who delivered an insightful address on transformative research aligned with Calabarzon's harmonized research agenda for FY 2023-2028. 

 The conference featured four parallel sessions covering various research categories: Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Development, and the 9th GAD Research Conference. Participants for the 9 th GAD Research Conference presented their studies at the Multidisciplinary Building, with each presentation followed by comments and suggestions from esteemed reactors, including Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, Dr. Paulito V. Hilario, and Prof. Jean Rose A. Esguerra. 

 A total of 14 research studies were presented. After a thorough review and evaluation, the research study “Lived Experiences of LGBTQIA+ Nursing Students on the Uniform Policies of the College of Nursing, Cavite State University A.Y. 2023-2024” by Ms. Nadine T. Cuento, Mr. Sean Joshua M. Macalintal, and Mr. Julian Nates D. Simpelo got the first place. 

 Meanwhile, the study titled “Gender-Fair Language in Selected Academic Textbooks of Cavite State University: Implications for Compliance on Sustainable Development Goal 5 (Gender Equality)” by Ms. Martha Abegail C. Paulino, Ms. Gwenneth A. Quirong, Ms. Micah Joy P. Sabanal, Dr. Agnes C. Francsiso, and Mr. Gilmartin Guerrero is hailed the second best research; and “Exploring the Life Experiences of Selected LGBTQIA+ Students in the City of Dasmariñas, Cavite” by Ms. Althea R. Alcantara, Mx. Sherman Troy M. Gayamo, and Mr. Joshua M. Villaluz was awarded the third place. 

 The event concluded with a closing message from Mr. Mark Jayvee Mojica, Research Center Staff, expressing deep gratitude to everyone for their unwavering support and emphasizing the importance of fostering collaboration and continuous improvement in research and development. 

 Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, GADRC Secretariat, served as the moderator for the 9th GAD Research Conference. 
 Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo (left), Dr. Paulito V. Hilario (middle), and Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, Secretariat, GADRC, served as the discussants/reactors for the 9th GAD Research Conference. 
 A group photo with the officials of the university.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new registered electrical engineers, master electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-congratulates-new-registered-electrical-engineers-master-electricians-2/ | 2024-08-30 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new registered electrical engineers and master electricians! 

 The CvSU Main Campus is the fourth top performing school with 88.89% (24 out of 27) passing percentage in the August 2024 Registered Electrical Engineers Licensure Examination (REELE). 

 Meanwhile, CvSU Rosario (CCAT) Campus posted 78.05% (32 out of 41) overall passing rate, with Ms. Marielle R. Barroa securing the fourth highest place (92.15% passing rate) in the REELE. 

 For the August 2024 Registered Master Electricians Licensure Examination, CCAT Campus attained 100% (3 out of 3) passing rate, while the Main Campus registered 75% (3 out of 4) passing rate. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/…/august-2024-registered…

----- DOC | Santiago is top 9 in August 2024 Food Technologists licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/santiago-is-top-9-in-august-2024-food-technologists-licensure-exam/ | 2024-08-30 -----
Cavite State University's (CvSU) Shiela Maureen A. Santiago is top 9 in the August 2024 Food Technologists Licensure Examination. 

 CvSU posted an overall passing percentage of 40% (12 out of 30) in the said licensure examination given by the Board of Food Technology in the National Capital Region, Baguio, and Davao.  

 See full results here:  

 https://prc.gov.ph/…/august-2024-food-technologists…

----- DOC | 2024 PH ROTC Games – Nat'l Championships held at CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/2024-ph-rotc-games-natl-championships-held-at-cvsu/ | 2024-08-28 -----
In its second year, the national championships of the Philippine Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) Games was held at Cavite State University (CvSU) in Indang, Cavite, August 18-24. 

 Themed “Husay ng ROTC, Husay ng Kabataan,” cadet athletes, coaches, officials, and staff from various higher education institutions (HEIs) across the country gathered for the national championships  which aims to promote camaraderie, nationalism, sports development, and the ROTC program.   

 From 2023, the ROTC Games saw a significant increase in the number of participating athletes and HEIs, and sports events including arnis, athletics, basketball, boxing, chess, e-sports, kickboxing, sepak takraw, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, target shooting, volleyball, raiders' competition, and Miss ROTC.  

 Sen. Jinggoy Ejercito Estrada and Sen. Sherwin T. Gatchalian graced the national championships as the guests of honor and speakers during the opening and closing ceremonies, respectively.  

 In their messages, Sen. Estrada emphasized how the ROTC Games promotes discipline, camaraderie, teamwork, and nationalism by providing a platform for young Filipinos to showcase their athletic talents and skills.  

 Meanwhile, Sen. Gatchalian reiterated the importance of providing support to hone the skills of young Filipinos who have the potential in sports.  

 According to Sen. Francis Tolentino, the founder of Philippine ROTC Games, some cadet athletes competing in combat sports and target shooting have the potential to become part of the national pool. 

 A total of 270 ROTC athlete scholars (134 from Army, 68 from Navy, and 68 from Air Force) were also awarded with a P50,000 scholarship grant at the conclusion of the Games. 

 This 2024 Philippine ROTC Games was also dominated by the cadet athletes from the Philippine Navy with 44 gold, 19 silver, and 26 bronze medals; the Philippine Army with 42 gold, 54 silver, and 77 bronze; and the Philippine Air Force with 18 gold, 27 silver, and 39 bronze. 

 Meanwhile, the De La Salle University is hailed as the top performing school in this year's Games with 25 gold and three silver medals.  

 The Philippine ROTC Games was made possible through the initiatives of the Office of Senator Tolentino, Philippine Sports Commission, Department of National Defense, Armed Forces of the Philippines, Commission on Higher Education, and partner local government units and host HEIs for the competition's qualifying championships. 

 Sen. Francis N. Tolentino welcomes the delegates during the opening ceremonies 
 Sen. Jinggoy Ejercito Estrada delivers his inspirational message to the Philippine ROTC Games delegates 
 Screenshot from the video message of Sen. Sherwin Gatchalian during the closing ceremonies 
 ROTC athletes from the Philippine Army during the awarding of the scholarship grant 
 ROTC athletes from the Philippine Navy during the awarding of the scholarship grant 
 ROTC athletes from the Philippine Air Force during the awarding of the scholarship grant

----- DOC | The Role of International Student Mobility in Advancing SDGs Seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/the-role-of-international-student-mobility-in-advancing-sdgs-seminar/ | 2024-08-27 -----
On August 27, 2024, Cavite State University in partnership with Huachiew Chalermprakiet University conducted a seminar titled: The Role of International Student Mobility in Advancing SDGs . This seminar explored the critical role of international student mobility.

 Understanding the connection between international student mobility and the achievement of SDGs; sharing best practices and successful models of international student mobility programs; discussed the challenges and opportunities in aligning international student mobility with the SDGs; elevate the visibility of Cavite State University in the Asian community as a valuable contributor to the international arena in terms of culture, academics, and research are the primary goal of this program that can directly contribute to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development goals particularly in areas such as good health and well-being, quality education and global partnerships.

----- DOC | CvSU tops July 2024 Criminology board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-tops-july-2024-criminology-board-exam/ | 2024-08-23 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is the top performing school in the July 2024 Licensure Examination for Criminologists. 

 CvSU posted a 95.04% passing percentage (115/121) in the recently conducted licensure examination, and was ranked first among the top performing schools with 100-199 examinees. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 11,121 out of 22,539 (49.35%) passed the said board exam given by the Board of Criminology in 22 testing centers all over the country. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/july-2024-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-fourteen-14-working-days

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new registered psychometricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-produces-new-registered-psychometricians/ | 2024-08-20 -----
Congratulations to Cavite State University's (CvSU) new registered psychometricians! 

 A total of 182 examinees from CvSU's Main, Bacoor City, General Trias, Imus, Silang, Tanza, and Trece Martires campuses successfully passed the August 2024 Psychometricians Licensure Examination with a national passing rate of 69.78%. 

 The said examination was given by the Board of Psychology in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cebu, and Davao in August 2024. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2024-psychometricians-licensure-examination-results-released-five-5-working-days/7575?fbclid=IwY2xjawEwso5leHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHUbVi4LeIa2Tthev5qCy3q7k9MPSXQ13GsoEFBx7Pa9tiP4ItHy1mR29eA_aem_xNvR8CHZFrDrEzQl67Y3aw

----- DOC | 12-Month Contract for Security Services for Main and Satellite Campuses | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/12-month-contract-for-security-services-for-main-and-satellite-campuses-2/ | 2024-08-15 -----
MINUTES OF THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE AND BID BULLETIN 

 Minutes of the Pre-bidding Conference 

 Bid Bulletin No. 1 – Notice of Change Venue 

 Bid Bulletin No. 2 

 Bid Bulletin No. 3 – Revision and Postponement 

 Template Bid Form (Final) 

 INVITATION TO APPLY FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TO BID 

 ITB 

 BID DOCUMENTS 

 BID DOCS 

 TERMS OF REFERENCE

 

 TERMS OF REFERENCE

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery, Installation, Testing and Commissioning of Brand-New Elevator for DCEE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/supply-delivery-installation-testing-and-commissioning-of-brand-new-elevator-for-dcee-2/ | 2024-08-15 -----
MINUTES OF THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE AND BID BULLETIN 

 Minutes of the Pre-bidding Conference 

 Bid Bulletin No. 1 – Notice of Change Venue 

 Bid Bulletin No. 2 

 INVITATION TO APPLY FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TO BID 

 ITB 

 BID DOCUMENTS 

 BID DOCS 

 PLAN 

 PLAN 

 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

 

 SPECS

----- DOC | CvSU produces topnotcher, new registered medical technologists | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-produces-topnotcher-new-registered-medical-technologists/ | 2024-08-14 -----
Cavite State University's (CvSU) Jan Elvin P. Cezar is top 10 in the August 2024 Medical Technologists Licensure Examination. 

 CvSU posted 89.89% (169 out of 188 examinees) in the recently concluded licensure examination with a national passing rate of 69.47%. 

 The full results can be accessed here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2024-medical-technologists-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working-days

----- DOC | Stories of inclusivity, diversity shine in CvSU basketball exhibition game | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/stories-of-inclusivity-diversity-shine-in-cvsu-basketball-exhibition-game/ | 2024-08-13 -----
Raising the flag and promoting inclusivity and diversity through sports. 

 This as the Philippines' men's and women's wheelchair basketball national teams, Pilipinas Warriors and Lady Warriors, showcased their grit and power in the hard court during Cavite State University's (CvSU) exhibition game dubbed “Wheel Power: The Basketball Battle” held on July 30, 2024 at the De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) Animo Center in Dasmariñas, Cavite. 

 The said event aims to promote inclusivity and diversity by providing a platform for persons with disabilities (PWDs) to demonstrate their skills and talents. It also seeks to create opportunities for collaboration between various stakeholders, including sports organizations, disability advocacy groups, and sponsors.  

 During the main event, the playing teams from the Pilipinas Warriors and Lady Warriors clashed in the 5×5 and 3×3 basketball, respectively, before a crowd composed of members of advocacy groups, and officials and staff from Cavite State University (CvSU), DLSMHSI, and local government units. 

 The activity also showcased the stories and talents of the members of the Kabite Singing Ambassadors for Disability Inclusion and Mr. Prince Zyren A. Manalo, a student from Biñan Elementary SPED School, who gave special performances during the program.   

 Before the tipoff, President Dr. Hernando D. Robles welcomed the guests and participants and reiterated the university's commitment to continue its programs and initiatives for PWDs in partnership with local government units and other partner institutions.  

 Meanwhile, DLSMHSI President Dr. Antonio B. Ramos talked about drawing inspiration from para athletes, and seeing this event as a learning experience for the whole community.  

 Moreover, national team head coach Vernon Perea gave an orientation about wheelchair basketball and shared the journey of the country's men's and women's wheelchair basketball teams. The men's team recently won silver at the 2024 SEA Region 3×3 Wheelchair Basketball Championship in Indonesia. 

 This event was made possible through the collaboration of  CvSU Gender and Resource Center; CvSU College of Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation; CvSU Dasmariñas Learning Center; DLSMHSI Diversity and Inclusivity Unit; Philippine Wheelchair Basketball Federation, Inc.; Office of the Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Officer – Cavite; Provincial Health Office – Cavite; Center for Health Development Calabarzon; Office of the Provincial Information Officer; Kan-Life Rehabilitation Center; Chowking – Trece Martires City; Kabite Singing Ambassadors for Disability Inclusion; and Mr. Manalo from Biñan Elementary SPED School. 

 The Pilipinas Lady Warriors during their 3×3 basketball game 
 The Pilipinas Warriors during the 5×5 basketball event 
 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles and officials pose with the members of the Philippines' men's and women's wheelchair basketball national teams 
 Dr. Robles delivers his opening message for the event 
 DLSMHSI President Dr. Antonio B. Ramos gives his message to the wheelchair basketball team and to the participants of the event 
 Wheelchair basketball national team head coach Vernon Perea during his orientation ahead of the exhibition games 
 Members of the Kabite Singing Ambassadors for Disability Inclusion during their intermission number 
 Mr. Prince Zyren A. Manalo, a student from Biñan Elementary SPED School, during his intermission number

----- DOC | CvSU faculty members complete leadership dev't program for HEIs in SEA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-faculty-members-complete-leadership-devt-program-for-heis-in-sea/ | 2024-08-05 -----
Two Cavite State University (CvSU) faculty members successfully completed the 2024 Leadership Development Program for Higher Education Institutions (LDP-HEIs) in Southeast Asia. 

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean of the Graduate School and Open Learning College, and Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, Associate Professor V, completed the hybrid training program co-organized by the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA) and The HEAD Foundation. 

 Dr. Ilagan and Dr. Crizaldo attended the face-to-face sessions in Bangkok, Thailand last May 7-9 for the pitching and refinement of their Re-Entry Action Plan. They joined other delegates from 23 participating HEIs in Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Vietnam. 

 Running from March to July 2024, the said program is designed to provide Southeast Asian HEI leaders with the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively lead thriving and resilient universities in the region. (by M. Lascano and X.M. Cruz)

----- DOC | CvSU hosts PH ROTC Games – Luzon and NCR leg | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/08/cvsu-hosts-ph-rotc-games-luzon-and-ncr-leg/ | 2024-08-01 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) hosted the Luzon and National Capital Region qualifying leg of the 2024 Philippine Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) Games, July 28 – August 3. 

 Now in its second year, this week-long event themed “ Husay ng ROTC, Husay ng Kabataan ” aims to promote camaraderie, nationalism, sports development, and the ROTC program. 

 More than a thousand participants including cadets from the Philippine Army, Philippine Navy, and Philippine Air Force from various higher education institutions battled it out in the following events: arnis, athletics, basketball, boxing, chess, e-sports, kickboxing, sepak takraw , swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, target shooting, volleyball, and raiders' competition.  

 This year's games officially commenced with the opening ceremonies led by Sen. Francis N. Tolentino as the “father” of Philippine ROTC Games, and Sen. Robinhood C. Padilla as the guest of honor and speaker. 

 Prior to the kickoff, Sen. Ronald “Bato” M. Dela Rosa also graced the Miss ROTC Luzon 2024 which was won by Ms. Radha Marie F. Cabug of PATTS College of Aeronautics ( Air Force).  

 In their messages, the legislators lauded CvSU's efforts in hosting the games  – a testament to the institution's continuous support to the ROTC program and sports development in the country.  

 Joining the opening program were CvSU officials headed by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President; Comm. Matthew “Fritz” P. Gaston, Philippine Sports Commission; Asec. Henry A. Robinson Jr., Department of National Defense; Tagaytay City Councilor Michael Francis C. Tolentino, representing Tagaytay City Mayor Abraham N. Tolentino; Prof. Edna Imelda F. Legazpi, Commission on Higher Education Director of the Office of Student Development and Services and representing Chairperson J. Prospero E. De Vera III; Rep. Venus Emperado Apas, ipaTUPAD Partylist; and other officials from CHED and participating universities and colleges.  

 Also present in the kickoff ceremony were Maj. Gen. Joel Alejandro Nacnac; Maj. Gen. Romulo Manuel Jr., Commander of RESCOM; Brig. Gen. Samuel Manzano, Deputy Commander of RESCOM; Brig. Gen. Vicente Ronatay, Commander of AFP Reserve Command; Brig. Gen. Llewillyn Banaag, Deputy Commander of Air Force Reserve Command; Maj. Gen. Joseph Cuison, Commander of Naval Reserve Command; Col. Nolito Quemi, Deputy G9 PA; and Lt. Cdr. Eleno Rolly Saldon.  

 The playing venues include CvSU (arnis, athletics, chess, table tennis, volleyball, and raiders competition); Tagaytay Combat Sports Center (boxing and kickboxing); Sigtuna Hall, Tagaytay International Convention Center (sepak takraw); Robinson's Tagaytay Basketball Court (basketball); De La Salle University Dasmariñas (swimming); Camp Riego de Dios in Tanza (target shooting); and Tolentino Sports Complex and Activity Center (taekwondo).  

 The ROTC Games – Visayas leg was held in Bacolod City on May 26 – June 1, while Zamboanga City hosted the Mindanao Leg on June 23-29.  CvSU is also slated to host the national championship on August 18 – 24.  

 The official results and other PRG updates may be accessed through the Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/PHROTCGames 

 DND Asec. Henry A. Robinson Jr., Sen. Robinhood C. Padilla, Sen. Francis N. Tolentino, CvSU President Hernando D. Robles, CHED Regional Director Freddie B. Bulauan, and Tagaytay City Councilor Michael Francis C. Tolentino during the opening ceremonies 
 Sen. Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa during the Miss ROTC Luzon 2024 (Courtesy: Philippine ROTC Games Facebook page) 
 Sen. Francis Tolentino together with the winners of the Miss ROTC Luzon 2024 (Courtesy: Philippine ROTC Games Facebook page)

----- DOC | Congratulations to newly licensed Master Plumbers! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/07/congratulations-to-newly-licensed-master-plumbers/ | 2024-07-25 -----
Cavite State University posted a 66.67% passing percentage (8/12) in the July 2024 Master Plumbers Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 2,936 out of 6,191 passed the said licensure examination given by the Board for Master Plumber in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Rosales, Tacloban, and Puerto Princesa, Palawan in July 2024. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/july-2024-master-plumbers-licensure-examination-results-released-three-3-working-days/7494?fbclid=IwY2xjawEUK9NleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHcsJCqBLLdBidREIAOeWVmIRJmiZnolAKGMmYTwvqKvaB3AW8FcOsuBh3w_aem_MJp251BMPUeSVx2VXVx9UA

----- DOC | CvSU is PQA Level III awardee | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/07/cvsu-is-pqa-level-iii-awardee/ | 2024-07-18 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is a recipient of the Philippine Quality Award (PQA) Recognition for Mastery in Quality Management (Level III).  

 This award is proof that the institution “demonstrated, through its practices and achievements, superior results clearly linked to robust management systems.”  

 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, together with Vice President (VP) for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and VP for Planning and Development Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, accepted the PQA trophy during the 26th PQA Conferment Ceremony held at the Malacañang Palace in Manila, July 17. 

 Handing the award are Executive Secretary Lucas P. Bersamin, Department of Trade and Industry Secretary Alfredo E. Pascual, Chairperson of the 26th Cycle PQA Board of Judges Mr. Ruy Y. Moreno, and Development Academy of the Philippines Vice President Arnel D. Abanto.  

 Other University officials who attended the conferment ceremony are VP for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, VP for Administrative and Support Services Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Institutional Development Office Director Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Planning and Development Office Director Engr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes, and Public Affairs and Communications Director Adora Joy T. Plete.  

 The PQA is the highest level of national award to recognize the exemplary performance of public and private organizations in the country. It is equivalent to the prestigious Baldrige Performance Excellence Program in the United States and other National Quality Awards nationwide. 

 For the 26th cycle, a total of 14 organizations from the public and private sectors, including state universities and colleges, were awarded with various PQA Recognition Categories. 

 Earlier this year, CvSU was ranked among the top universities worldwide in the 2023 World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI) and the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact rankings. The University was also a recipient of the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Stars Award in March 2023. (Photo courtesy of Dr. PRP Lucero)

----- DOC | CvSU joins SUC Fair 2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/07/cvsu-joins-suc-fair-2024/ | 2024-07-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) joined the State Universities and Colleges (SUC) Fair 2024 with the theme “Weaving Culture and Innovations for a Transformative, Resilient, and Globally-recognized Philippine Higher Education,” at the KCC Mall in Zamboanga City, July 9-11. 

 Present during the event were Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, CvSU Vice President for Planning and Development; Ms. Bernadette S. Amparo, Head of CvSU Extension Services, Community Engagement and External Relations Division (CEERD) and Technology Promotion Division (TPD); Ms. Paula Gie C. Ducusin, CEERD staff; and Mr. Edwin G. Cueno, Extension Services personnel. 

 Hosted by the Western Mindanao State University as the lead institution, this year's SUC Fair aims to cultivate a seamless and collaborative event experience through strategic planning and meticulous preparation. 

 This activity also seeks to create a dynamic and engaging event experience that celebrates the multifaceted achievements of SUCs, fosters a sense of community and camaraderie, and ignites a spirit of healthy competition; and create a permanent record of the SUC Fair Expo's achievements and highlights, fostering its legacy and potentially inspiring future collaboration and partnerships. (Text and photos from the CvSU Extension Services)

----- DOC | Empowering LGBTQIA+ Individuals with Knowledge on Sexual Health and Safety | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/07/empowering-lgbtqia-individuals-with-knowledge-on-sexual-health-and-safety/ | 2024-07-01 -----
Raising the flag of different shades and hues of rainbow in celebration of this year's Pride Month, the Cavite State University, through its Gender and Development Resource Center, conducted a webinar titled “Empowering LGBTQIA+ Individuals with Knowledge on Sexual Health and Safety” held on June 27, 2024, 8:00 am onwards via Facebook Live. 

 The webinar officially commenced with the discussion of the preliminaries by Ms. MJ Clarisse C. De Grano (CFW). 

 

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, Faculty Member of CvSU Carmona Campus, proceeded with the discussion proper with the first topic, “Understanding SOGIESC.” He elaborated the definition of SOGIESC from a diverse perspective, underscoring these specific topics: sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and sex characteristics. 

 

 It was followed by the second speaker, Mr. Joshua Q. Cadayona, Faculty Member of College of Arts and Sciences, where he delved into the topic titled “Emotional Health Concerns of LGBTQIA+,” highlighting the research studies showing a significant elevated risk of poor mental health among members of LGBTQIA+ (Branstrom, 2024). He also talked about the common challenges they face every day as a member of the LGBTQIA+ spectrum, such as name calling, microaggressions, gender bias, gas lighting, unequal treatment, and stereotyping. By experiencing these common challenges,  LQBTQIA+ members often develop these key coping strategies as follows: self-blaming, reporting to authority, concealment, avoidance behavior, disengagement, adaptation, and counseling. 

 

 Furthermore, Mr. Rizalito B. Javier, RN, MAN, LPT, PhD, discussed the topic titled “LQBTQIA+ Health Issues,”  where he elaborated on sexually transmitted infections, its mode and site infection and how it could be prevented through injection. He also delved into the clinical manifestation of treponema pallidum and the treatment procedure for the said condition. Consequently, he also discussed the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) which can be transmitted from one person to another, deconstructing the myths regarding the topic, and elaborating on the treatment process for HIV/ AIDS. 

 

 Lastly, Mr. Renato T. Agdalpen, Chairperson of the Department of Social Sciences, officially concluded with a closing message on behalf of  Dr. Armi Grace B. Desingaño, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. He stated the importance of this webinar in breaking myths about the LGBTQIA+ members and the level of acceptance of people with HIV/AIDS. He said that it would not end with this webinar but this a long life process, a collective effort on having a just and inclusive society for all. 

 Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, Faculty Member and GAD Coordinator of the CvSU Trece Campus, served as the moderator for this webinar.

----- DOC | CvSU produces new architects in June 2024 licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/cvsu-produces-new-architects-in-june-2024-licensure-exam/ | 2024-06-20 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) produced 25 new architects in the June 2024 Licensure Examination for Architects. 

 With the University's overall performance of 78.13% (25/32), CvSU's new architects are among the 2,094 out of 3,370 passers in the said licensure examination with 62.14% national passing rate. 

 The examination was given by the Board of Architects in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga  on June 11 and 13, 2024. 

 The full results can be accessed here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/june-2024-licensure-examination-architects-results-released-three-3-working-days/7417?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR3pqZFmw39Q5lnLKTBL3hgnMpxnKtLNO6e4SnDHuO5z93-UnPz_evNPPNc_aem_ZmFrZWR1bW15MTZieXRlcw

----- DOC | A Webinar on Child Labor – Makibahagi, Makiisa para sa Batang Malaya | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/a-webinar-on-child-labor-makibahagi-makiisa-para-sa-batang-malaya/ | 2024-06-18 -----
In celebration of the Child Labor Day or World Day Against Child Labor on June 12, 2024, Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development Resource Center, conducted a webinar entitled, “Child Labor – Makabahagi, Makiisa para sa Batang Malaya” held on June 11, 2024, via video conferencing and Facebook live. 

 The webinar aimed to increase awareness on sexual abuse and exploitation, particularly the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (CSEC), Online Exploitation of Children (OSEC), and Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Materials (CSAEM). It also sought to provide an understanding of the definitions, legal frameworks, and best practices for addressing child labor; recognize the various situations that make children vulnerable to the worst form of child labor; and clearly define participants' roles in protecting children from exploitation. 

 

 To formally start the webinar, Dr. Willie C. Buclatin, Dean of the College of Engineering and Information Technology, delivered the opening message. He warmly welcomed the participants and expressed hopes that the webinar would address or find solutions to child labor issues in the Philippines. He emphasized that the goal of this activity was to provide participants with knowledge and insights to become part of the solution. He encouraged everyone to participate in discussions addressing the current child labor problem. 

 

 “Child Labor in the Philippines: A Situationer” was discussed by Ms. Dianne G. Digma, Community Facilitator from DOLE Cavite. She began her discussion with data about working children and child labor situation. She said that according to the 2011 survey by the Philippine Statistics Authority, an estimated 2.1 million children, aged 5 to 17, were engaged in child labor, with CALABARZON ranking as the 4 th area with the highest incidence. The 2020 Labor Force Survey also showed an estimated 597 thousand children aged 5 to 17 engaged in child labor, with CALABARZON ranking as 5 th area with higher incidence. It was concluded that most children involved in child labor were males working in the agriculture industry. 

 Afterwards Ms. Digma also discussed the topic “Revisiting Child Labor – Related Laws and Policies,” including PD 422, PD 603, R.A 11930, R.A 10631, R.A 10821, R.A 10163, R.A 10821, and R.A 9231. 

 

 The session was then followed by the second speaker, Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte, Project Development Officer III, Secretariat, RIACAT-VAWC IV-A, who discussed “Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (CSEC) and Online Sexual Exploitation of Children (OSEC) in the Philippines: A Situationer.” He presented quick facts about OSAEC – CASAEM, stating that the Philippines is one of the top 10 countries producing child pornography material globally. According to him, nearly half (43.8%) of Filipino children aged 13-17 years experienced violence on the internet, with the average age of children going online is 10 years old, and eight out of 100 children interact regularly with someone they met online. It is estimated that 500,000 online predators are active each day, nearly half a million Filipino children were trafficked, and nearly quarter of a million adult Filipinos trafficked children to produce new sexual exploitation material in 2022. 

 

 To conclude the webinar, Mr. V-jay S. Eusebio delivered the closing message on behalf of Dr. Marissa Lontoc – Ikan, Officer-in-Charge of the College of Criminal Justice. He expressed gratitude to the two resource speakers for sharing their expertise, by opening the eyes of the viewers on child labor and exploitation. He emphasized that this webinar is indeed one of informative activities aimed at preventing child labor and responding to the issue effectively and efficiently. Lastly, he stated that the challenge now is to take action to prevent this illegal and inhumane crime, and to be responsive to observe human rights, proactive, and vigilant to our communities because, above all, the welfare and safety of the children is the main priority.

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 1501+ in 2024 THE Impact Rankings | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/cvsu-ranks-1501-in-2024-the-impact-rankings/ | 2024-06-13 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) ranks 1501+ among the educational institutions worldwide in the Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings for 2024. 

 In its debut in the THE Impact Rankings, CvSU's programs and initiatives in support of the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were evaluated and ranked as follows: SDG 1 No Poverty (Rank 801-1000); SDG 4 Quality Education (Rank 1501+); SDG 5 Gender Equality (Rank 601-800); and SDG 17 Partnership for the Goals (Rank 1501+). 

 For 2024, the THE Impact Rankings assessed the performance of a total of 2,152 universities from 125 countries/regions in delivering the SDGs of the United Nations, particularly in areas of research, stewardship, outreach, and teaching.  

 “By excelling in a variety of SDGs, these universities showcase their commitment to addressing the world's most pressing challenges, including environmental sustainability, social inclusion, economic growth and partnerships,” THE said in its website. 

 “This overall ranking celebrates universities that are not only leaders in specific SDGs but also those that maintain a high level of excellence across a broad spectrum of goals. By doing so, it emphasises the interconnectedness of all SDGs and the importance of multifaceted strategies in achieving sustainable development,” it added.  

 The full results of the University Impact Rankings for 2024 may be accessed here: https://www.timeshighereducation.com/impactrankings?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR3hm2oH_o64YA3EUIS-Ofr4zXx4eBeU4LFNR21PqMqaSS1iu1Mu88lL-30_aem_AcZSNCywrRkflpFhEQxJa-SEUmFGs2vZeQox86G5yc8vvhc0aTzVdWinef9UyYtXftIa0eazo-iAvdTPXpAwC–i

----- DOC | Training of Trainers on Gender and Development of De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/training-of-trainers-on-gender-and-development-of-de-la-salle-medical-and-health-sciences-institute/ | 2024-06-11 -----
With the continuous commitment and efforts of the university to mainstream and localize gender and development, the De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) in collaboration with Cavite State University's (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a training for Trainers on Gender and Development on June 5-7, 2024, at Elijah Hotel, Brgy. Salawag, Dasmariñas, Cavite. 

 This activity provided proper training that aims to instill basic responsibility to the GAD trainers; support them to identify and become acquainted with essential GAD concepts – disseminating knowledge across and making oneself an effective oral communicator; advise participants on how to accurately plan and present a gender sensitive report; and demonstrate competencies in providing training to internal and external clients. 

 

 DLSMHSI Vice Chancellor for Academics, Ms. Naomi M. De Aro, RN, MAN, EdD, started the activity highlighting the relevance of this training in a Catholic co-educational institution. She then emphasized the importance of the establishment of GAD Focal Point System and the collective efforts of different units to mainstream gender and development in their institution. 

 Ms. Geraisa C. Lama, CMA, CMHFR, then proceeded with the discussion of the rationale and objectives of the activity. 

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of CvSU GADRC, discussed the topic “Why be a GAD Advocate?” where she tackled what characteristics should an advocate possessed. She highlighted that advocacy is not just about influencing public policy, but also about influencing public opinion. Moreover, she added the importance of promoting GAD in which she emphasized that it starts with respect, valuing women and men as equal to a safer and healthier relationship. Furthermore, she stressed that the role of a GAD advocate is to offer independent support to those who felt left behind and unheard. 

 Lastly, she then discussed Gender Equality, Disability and Social Inclusion (GEDSI) highlighting its importance for building a fair and just society. Underscoring the factors that affect the emerging hindrances of inclusion in the society. She insisted that advocating GEDSI is essential for creating a world where everyone can thrive, and ensures that no one is being left out regardless of sex, religion, ethnicity, or diversity. 

 

 In the afternoon, Prof. King David J. Agreda, President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA, Calabarzon GAD Resource Pool Member, delved into the salient features of Republic Act No. 9710 or the Magna Carta of Women and its process of localization, stressing the important role of education to combat daily injustices in our society. 

 He then pondered on the CHED Memo Order No. 1 series of 2015 which mandates the integration of GAD perspectives into the curricula, research and extension programs of higher education institutions (HEIs) in the Philippines. Weaving gender equality into the fabric of higher education, CHED Memo Order No. 1 series of 2015 paves the way for a more inclusive and progressive academic landscape. 

 

 On the second day of the activity, DLSMHSI President Mr. Antonio B. Ramos, MD, FPCS, FPATACSI, MBA reminded participants that no amount of money can surpass a heart that wins GAD advocacies. 

 

 Thereafter, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Head of Training and Courseware Development Division – CvSU Extension Services, gave a basic orientation on GAD and gender fair language. She elaborated that gender sensitivity helps recognize the needs, roles, and contributions of all genders. She encouraged the participants to use gender fair language to promote equality and reduce certain biases in communication, avoiding assumptions based on gender and incorporate inclusive language. Also, she pointed out the norms in language that are sexist in nature. 

 Mr. Agreda was tasked to elaborate the topics on gender mainstreaming and effective oral communication. He discussed the importance of establishing GAD Focal Point System to fully capacitate their departments and units in mainstreaming GAD and enabling their plans into formulation of policies, and the skills they must acquire to conventionalized gender and development through different forms of information dissemination in various platforms. 

 The last day of the training focused on the return demo of the participants, discussing topics specifically Gender Sensitivity Orientation, Magna Carta of Women, and Gender Fair Language. Amongst the pool of participants, Ms. Melody M. Vilado and Mr. Roberto Lopez Cruz III were hailed as the Best Presenters, while Mr. Billy Jay Pedron and Ms. Driayah Nicole A. Dario ranked as Top trainers after taking the post-test. 

 To formally conclude the event, Mr. Billy Jay Pedron, Dean of the Student Affairs – Minority and Multicultural Unit, expressed his gratitude towards the whole team of CvSU GADRC as he emphasized to continuously raised the call for GAD advocacy, and the importance of building a strong relationship to also inspire other people to support the said cause.

----- DOC | CvSU makes it to WURI 2024 rankings | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/cvsu-makes-it-to-wuri-2024-rankings/ | 2024-06-10 -----
In its first bid in the 2024 World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI), Cavite State University (CvSU) ranked among the top 100 universities in two categories. 

 For 2024 WURI, CvSU landed in the 25 th spot in Culture/Values and 32 nd in Crisis Management among the top 100 universities from 1,072 Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) evaluated around the world. 

 A ranking system of the Organizing Committee of the Hanseatic League of Universities and one of the three recognized systems for HEI internationalization of the Commission on Higher Education, WURI assesses the industry and societal contributions of HEIs worldwide using 13 categories encompassing innovation targets and methods. 

 In its website, it says that the ranking “aims to spotlight higher education institutions that excel in these innovative approaches, thereby inspiring advancements across the academic and societal landscape.” 

 The full results of the WURI 2024 rankings can be accessed here: https://www.wuri.world/wuri-ranking-2024

----- DOC | US-based CvSU alumni, educators get teaching excellence award | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/us-based-cvsu-alumni-educators-get-teaching-excellence-award/ | 2024-06-05 -----
Two Cavite State University (CvSU) alumni and educators based in the United States are recognized for their remarkable impact in uplifting the teaching profession. 

 Dr. Eleuterio F. Timbol and Ms. Lady Aileen Ambion-Orsal received the Excellence Award in the Teaching Profession from the United Federation of Fil-Am Educators, Inc. (UNIFFIED) during the organization's 10th anniversary celebration on May 25, 2024 in Newark, New Jersey, USA. 

 A PhD in Educational Management alumnus and high school teacher based in New York City, Dr. Timbol has been previously awarded with the 2024 SLOAN Award for Excellence in Teaching Science and Mathematics, and the 2022 Governor's Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award for his exemplary teaching and dedication to helping students in fields related to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). 

 Meanwhile, Ms. Ambion-Orsal, a communication studies scholar and cultural advocate, is the first Filipino language preceptor at Harvard University. She graduated summa cum laude with BA Mass Communication (Major in Journalism) degree from CvSU, and recently completed MA Communication Studies from Northern Illinois University. Before her teaching stint in the US, Ms. Ambion-Orsal served as a faculty member of the College of Arts and Sciences – Department of Languages and Mass Communication, and director of the Public Affairs and Communications Office.  

 A duly registered 501(c)(3) and a SEC registered non-profit organization in the US and in the Philippines, UNIFFIED is an organization of educators sharing “the vision of dedicating their skills in promoting excellence in teaching and providing community service through projects that will benefit their community.” 

 (Dr. E.F. Timbol's photo from the Fund for the City of New York website)

----- DOC | Comelec holds Voter Education and Registration Fair at CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/comelec-holds-voter-education-and-registration-fair-at-cvsu/ | 2024-06-04 -----
The Commission on Elections (Comelec), in partnership with Cavite State University (CvSU) Office of Student Affairs and Services, held the 2024 Voter Education and Registration Fair at the CvSU International Convention Center, May 31. 

 Comelec Chairperson George Erwin M. Garcia, CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, and local poll officials and personnel led the said event which highlighted an onsite voter registration fair through the Special Register Anywhere Program (SRAP), automated counting machine demonstration, and voter education lecture. 

 This activity is part of the Comelec's nationwide effort aimed at raising awareness on the importance of voter registration, and helping voters under their rights and responsibilities.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new CPAs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/06/cvsu-congratulates-new-cpas/ | 2024-06-03 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) produced 15 new Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) in the May 2024 licensure examinations. 

 With overall performance of 41.67% (15/36), CvSU's new CPAs joined other successful examinees in the said licensure exam with 30.28% national passing percentage. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/may-2024-licensure-examination-certified-public-accountants-results-released-three-3-working?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR0ngf7mqr-8CnC6scLpQ9OVLEESx05wh_e6k3NN2vuO1J96QpmydeYKKiE_aem_AbGfz94M04tJUxobmfP1RTzRL-qGj7w3Nf1mLG-2Tbd1WnkqnL6EccmqxqIDEZuZhON-K7-kQjKVwYcPzWBUjfKm

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's new licensed professional teachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/congratulations-to-cvsus-new-licensed-professional-teachers/ | 2024-05-28 -----
Cavite State University congratulates its graduates from the main and satellite campuses who successfully passed the March 2024 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT). 

 

 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 20,890 elementary teachers and 50,539 secondary teachers passed the said examination given on March 17, 2024 in 36 testing centers nationwide. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/march-2024-results-licensure-examination-professional-teachers-released-forty-seven-47?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR3IHwFXsGp-132pl46z_P1UshVPC1wYgsdYIn-NzJPc-flibR7CDy2DirM_aem_AV6rnM0n9Z9hhxBjNVP-keEpzSSCg_F9VA5ck8KapA-jVQOkGRSY78kLT5xv5UynF2uNnjarE2JAr6Kjdv5J0bc-

----- DOC | 2024 Culture and Arts Festival (CAF) Competition | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/2024-culture-and-arts-festival-caf-competition/ | 2024-05-21 -----
Congratulations to our talented CvSU students who won in various categories (visual arts, dramatic, musical, dance, and special category – CAF King and Queen) will have the opportunity to represent the University in the upcoming 2024 Southern Tagalog Regional Association of the State University and Colleges (STRASUC) Culture and Arts Festival in November 2024 at the University of Rizal System.

----- DOC | CvSU faculty members participate in Thailand sessions for LDP-HEIs in SEA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/cvsu-faculty-members-participate-in-thailand-sessions-for-ldp-heis-in-sea/ | 2024-05-20 -----
Two Cavite State University (CvSU) faculty members attended the face-to-face sessions of the 2024 Leadership Development Program (LDP) for Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in Southeast Asia, May 7-9, in Bangkok, Thailand.  

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean of the Graduate School and Open Learning College, and Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, University Designated Faculty Researcher and Associate Professor V, are among the 33 delegates from 23 participating HEIs in Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Vietnam.  

 The participants convened in Thailand for the pitching and refinement of their Re-Entry Action Plan (REAP) before the LDP faculty headed by Dr. N. Varaprasad, founder and partner at Singapore Education Consulting Group, and the program's technical coordinator. 

 Running in hybrid mode from March to July 2024, this regional learning event, co-organized by the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA) and The HEAD Foundation, aims to build the capacities of Southeast Asian HEI leaders with the relevant skills and knowledge needed to effectively lead thriving and resilient universities in the region.  

 Photo of the LDP-HEI in SEA delegates from the SEARCA Official Facebook Page

----- DOC | CvSU takes part in Nat'l Higher Education Day Summit 2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/cvsu-takes-part-in-natl-higher-education-day-summit-2024/ | 2024-05-16 -----
Cavite State University joined other state universities and colleges (SUCs) in the country in the inaugural National Higher Education Day (NHED) Summit, May 15, at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City.  

 With the theme “USAP, ULAT, UGNAY: Access, Quality, and Competitiveness at the Core of Higher Education Reforms,” this summit is held in observance of the 30th anniversary of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), and the fourth NHED pursuant to Republic Act No. 11522 or “An Act Declaring May 18 of Every Year as the National Higher Education Day.” 

 In his special message during the 2024 NHED Summit, President Ferdinand R. Marcos Jr. encouraged higher education institutions and stakeholders to work together and strengthen efforts “towards an inclusive, equitable, accessible, and sustainable higher education sector” – molding a new generation of critical thinkers, problem solvers, and visionaries who can survive and thrive in a fast changing and highly competitive world. 

 “The battle to win the future is waged in today's schools, where we should arm our young men and women with the right skills to not only survive, but to thrive in a rapidly changing world that does not wait for anyone,” President Marcos said.  

 “And that is why improving higher education—and making it responsive to the present and future needs of society—is front and center of this administration's national development agenda. The success of many of our plans for the country depends heavily on the availability of a strong, resilient, and skilled human resource to drive the nation forward,” he added.  

 The President also reiterated the administration's commitment to continue providing free tertiary education in state and local universities and colleges for qualified students as provided under the Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act.  

 Meanwhile, CHED Chairperson J. Prospero E. De Vera III delivered The State of Higher Education in the Philippines, presenting the Commission's strategic plans and direction and the agency's milestones over the past 30 years. 

 The summit gathered presidents and officers-in-charge of SUCs in a bid to strengthen partnerships in addressing issues and concerns of the country's education system. The event also featured plenary talks, panel discussions, art exhibit, cultural show, and gala night. 

 The HEI leaders also convened for the CHED Quality Assurance Conference: Higher Education Leaders' Conclave on May 13 at the Grand Plaza Ballroom, Sofitel Philippine Plaza Manila. Held in collaboration with the United States Agency for Institutional Development through the US-PHL Partnership for Skills, Innovation, and Lifelong Learning (UPSKILL) Project, the  event aimed at fostering “collaborative environment for sharing of best practices, discussion on emerging trends, policy development, and strengthening QA mechanisms with HEIs.” 

 

  

 Screenshot from the UniFAST Facebook page's livestream of the National Higher Education Day Summit 2024 
 Screenshot from the CHED Facebook page's livestream of the Quality Assurance Conclave for Higher Education Leaders 
 Screenshot from the CHED Facebook page's livestream of the Quality Assurance Conclave for Higher Education Leaders

----- DOC | CvSU tops May 2024 nurses licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/cvsu-tops-may-2024-nurses-licensure-exam/ | 2024-05-14 -----
Cavite State University is the top performing school with 100% passing rate in the May 2024 Philippine Nurses Licensure Examination. 

 Cruzella Luzana Villanueva also ranked eighth (90.40%) among 7,749 successful examinees in the said examination given by the Board of Nursing in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, Zamboanga and Puerto Princesa, Palawan. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/may-2024-philippine-nurses-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working-days/7331?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR1gqzajKEDiKU7nbQmr6O2XN_8wiTZefwaV2ulqeuozmXYF-dLH1x3ci1c_aem_AS1-cBhQ8yHOegDlicJdp9sJx9dQNqPLoWfFZ5MIs-LR2FXD9gSa-qjYzajxjeZ_wHP8opHKTlVjkCjC5JkzD1V0

----- DOC | INAY, ESPESYAL KA! Empowering Motherhood: Ensuring Safe and Inclusive Maternal Health | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/inay-espesyal-ka-empowering-motherhood-ensuring-safe-and-inclusive-maternal-health/ | 2024-05-13 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) of Cavite State University (CvSU) conducted a webinar on May 08, 2024, via Zoom and Facebook Live, focusing on the theme “Inay, Espesyal ka! Empowering Motherhood: Ensuring Safe and Inclusive Maternal Health.” 

 This event is in celebration of Mother's Day and aims to highlight the anatomy of female reproductive system and its role in pregnancy childbirth. This webinar also seeks to understand the hormonal and psychological changes that occur during pregnancy and postpartum, describe the numerous contraceptives and their benefits and risk, increase awareness on gender disparities and barriers faced by women in accessing safe and inclusive maternal health services, foster deeper understanding of the social determinants of maternal health, and the importance of addressing gender inequalities and social disparities in improving maternal health outcomes. 

 

 In her opening message, Dr. Aisha H. Diquit, OIC of the University Health Services, shared some thoughts about maternal health. 

 

 The first resource person, Ms. Suzanne B. Alcantara, RM, is an expert in the field of maternal health. Her extensive knowledge and experience in midwifery provided invaluable insights into the critical aspects of maternal health, including the anatomy of the female reproductive organs, the physiological and psychological changes that occur during pregnancy and postpartum, and the importance of maternal health in the postpartum period. Ms. Alcantara stressed the importance of a holistic approach to postpartum care, recognizing that the well-being of the mother directly impacts the health and development of the newborn. 

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, Certified GAD Resource Pool Member Batch 2 CALABARZON and President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA, discussed the topic about engaging men and communities in maternal health. He tackled family planning and maternal care works that benefit both parties. The speaker also highlighted the importance of vasectomy and its effect physically and economically in the family or community where the man belongs, debunking the myths and misconceptions when it comes to family planning. Mr. Agreda also talked about KATROPA's flagship program when it comes to the involvement of men in terms of maternal health care and empowering them to engage actively in family planning. 

 In addition, Mr. Agreda provided an in-depth explanation of the advantages of male participation in family planning, safe sex practices, and maternal care. According to him, active fatherhood plays a significant role in preventing unplanned pregnancies, and is a shared responsibility between men and women in the home, family, and community. 

 

 Mr. Sunny Rose M. Ferrera delivered the closing speech on behalf of Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean College of Nursing. He thanked everyone for their valuable support and unwavering commitment which were instrumental in the successful conduct of the event.

----- DOC | 𝗥𝗘-𝗔𝗣𝗣𝗟𝗜𝗖𝗔𝗧𝗜𝗢𝗡 in the CvSU – Main Campus for the 1st Semester of School Year 2024 – 2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/%F0%9D%97%A5%F0%9D%97%98-%F0%9D%97%94%F0%9D%97%A3%F0%9D%97%A3%F0%9D%97%9F%F0%9D%97%9C%F0%9D%97%96%F0%9D%97%94%F0%9D%97%A7%F0%9D%97%9C%F0%9D%97%A2%F0%9D%97%A1-in-the-cvsu-main-campus-for-the-1st-seme/ | 2024-05-08 -----
𝗥𝗘-𝗔𝗣𝗣𝗟𝗜𝗖𝗔𝗧𝗜𝗢𝗡 in the CvSU – Main Campus for the 1st Semester of School Year 2024 – 2025 is now 𝐨𝐩𝐞𝐧. 

 
 Please be guided by the following admission procedures and guidelines. 

 
 List of Applicants (Control Numbers) who can re-apply: 

 https://drive.google.com/…/1b4FCQpTVJUUN1eBndPm…/view… 

 
 Google form for Re-application: 

 https://forms.gle/h23heWAXmgk9nUtf7 

 
 Kindly take note of the following important dates: 

 
 𝐌𝐚𝐲 𝟮𝟳, 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟰 – Releasing of Results for Re-Application 

 𝐉𝐮𝐧𝐞 𝟮𝟬, 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟰 – Last Day for Confirmation of Slots 

 
 Note: Late application and transferee-shiftee are not applicable in this procedure.

----- DOC | CvSU is top 2 performing school in April 2024 Midwifery board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/cvsu-is-top-2-performing-school-in-april-2024-midwifery-board-exam/ | 2024-05-07 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is the second top performing school in the April 2024 Licensure Examination for Midwives. 

 CvSU's Jedie Line Ramos Plaza and Rena Lei Millares Torcuato also ranked sixth and ninth, respectively, in the said examination. 

 The University posted 94.59% (35 out of 37 examinees) in the said licensure examination which has a national passing rate of 57.08%. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2024-licensure-examination-midwives-results-released-three-3-working-days/7313

----- DOC | Admission Result for SY 2024-2025 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/admission-result-for-sy-2024-2025/ | 2024-05-07 -----
Cavite State University – MAIN CAMPUS for SY 2024 – 2025 

 
 CONGRATULATIONS, PASSERS! 

 
 Please see attached photos and links for the admission procedures and guidelines. 

 
 You can view the complete list of Passers here (PDF file): https://drive.google.com/…/1oCuUjw7Sj3uvTmrqTw9…/view… 

 

 

 

 Link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oCuUjw7Sj3uvTmrqTw9qVPHDySbuAdsG/view?usp=sharing 

 

 

 

 Link: https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Link: https://forms.gle/6Atw1xGyZ2oRgpRu5

----- DOC | CvSU's Engr. Taguian is top 5 in Certified Industrial Engineer exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/cvsus-engr-taguian-is-top-5-in-certified-industrial-engineer-exam/ | 2024-05-06 -----
Cavite State University's Engr. Geri N. Taguian, faculty member from the College of Engineering and Information Technology, ranked fifth among the successful examinees in the 14 th Certified Industrial Engineer examination. 

 According to the Philippine Institute of Industrial Engineers, a total of 312 out of 366 (85.2%) passed the said examination administered by the Center for Educational Measurement, Inc. on April 14 and 17, 2024.

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's new electrical engineers, master electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/05/congratulations-to-cvsus-new-electrical-engineers-master-electricians/ | 2024-05-06 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its 27 new registered Electrical Engineers and two Master Electricians who successfully passed the April 2024 licensure examinations. 

 CvSU Main Campus posted 91.30% passing rate (21/23) and 54.55% (6/11) in the Electrical Engineer Licensure Examination. Meanwhile, CvSU General Trias Campus posted 100% (1/1) and CvSU Main Campus with 14.29% (1/7) in the Master Electrician Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, the national passing rate for the Electrical Engineers Licensure Examination is 63.33% and Master Electrician Licensure Examination at 51.56%.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new electronic engineers, electronics technicians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/cvsu-congratulates-new-electronic-engineers-electronics-technicians/ | 2024-04-30 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its three new registered Electronics Engineers and nine Electronics Technicians from the College of Engineering and Information Technology who successfully passed the April 2024 licensure examinations. 

 The University posted an overall performance of 50% (3/6 examinees) for the Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination, and 100% passing rate (9/9 examinees) in the Electronics Technician Licensure Examination.    

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, the national passing rate for the Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination is 42.49%, and Electronics Technicians Licensure Examination at  71.67%. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2024-electronics-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-three-3-working-days

----- DOC | CvSU produces 13 new Civil Engineers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/cvsu-produces-13-new-civil-engineers/ | 2024-04-30 -----
Cavite State University produces 13 new Civil Engineers with an overall performance of 46.43% in the April 2024 Civil Engineers Licensure Examination. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 6,680 out of 17,010 examinees passed the said examination given by the Board of Civil Engineering in 18 testing centers across the country. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/april-2024-civil-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-four-4-working-days/7295?fbclid=IwZXh0bgNhZW0CMTAAAR2LjyC2c3wjNVaw7qXz2bU_TMm83iPac6aL1kabr6MId49d3THvGiur7VA_aem_AeRKzIuWVwLlJpFZyt1fqb1R66g9foyob3Ce5fBDUUeR-YT6Vsa6JSE_sMObQFXZ9rj4gNiuikV8Esvcb2i80YmM

----- DOC | Empowering the Workforce: Understanding Gender Dynamics in Climate Change Workplace Impacts | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/empowering-the-workforce-understanding-gender-dynamics-in-climate-change-workplace-impacts/ | 2024-04-30 -----
The Cavite State University, through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted a webinar on April 29, 2024, titled “Empowering the Workforce: Understanding Gender Dynamics in Climate Change Workplace Impacts” streamed via Facebook live.

 

 In her opening remarks, Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, Dean of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources, acknowledged the resource speakers, members of the Administrative Council headed by University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, together with GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan, staff and faculty members, students, organizers, and the participants who attended the webinar.

 Dr. Novicio, discussed the background of the celebration, whereas in 2003 the International Labor Organization (ILO) began to observe the World Day for Safety and Health at Work in order to stress prevention of accidents and diseases at work. She explained that this is a worldwide awareness campaign intended to focus attention on the magnitude of the problem, and how promoting and creating a safety and health culture can help reduce the number of work-related deaths and injuries. She also highlighted how the celebration is an integral part of the global strategy on occupational safety and health at ILO as documented in the conclusions of the International Labor Conference in June 2003.

 

 For. Junser P. Magpantay, University Pollution Control Officer, comprehensively discussed the topic “Understanding  Gender Dynamic in Climate Change and Workplace Impacts.” He tackled how human activities predominantly drive climate change. For. Magpantay also explained how climate change affects industries relying on natural resources; disrupts the quality of working conditions; and pose risks to women and individuals with disabilities.

 

 Mr. Dexter P. Mendoza, OSH Practitioner, delved into Gender Inclusive Approaches to Climate Change Risk Assessment in the Workplace where he elaboratively discussed climate change adaptation and disaster risk management. He also presented data on economic and human impact, with 1.4 trillion dollars total damage, 1.7 billion total of people being affected, roughly 70% of deaths caused by earthquakes and tsunamis, and another 30% caused by other disasters (UNISDR).

 Mr. Mendoza ended his discussion by highlighting the impacts of climate change under socio-economic and gender dynamics around adaptation and disaster risk reduction. Emphasizing that despite significant strides that have been made in addressing gender inequalities, he said that women are still among the most marginalized groups of the society and are particularly vulnerable to current and future climate change and disaster risks.

 

 

 Meanwhile, Ms. Emaureen Go-Buclatin Martinez and Mr. Neil Escañan discussed the topic “Ensuring Gender Equity in Addressing Climate change and Occupational Hazards” where they presented the importance of gender equity in different places such as home, workplace or even in sports.

 The speakers also defined heat stress and who are at risk from this condition, including construction workers, firefighters, factory workers, and other occupations that combine manual labor with high temperatures.

 

 The webinar was formally wrapped up by Prof. Danielito R. Escaño, Director of Physical Plant Services, where he expressed his gratitude towards all the speakers and participants of the webinar. He also mentioned the continuous efforts of the University to fully combat the factors contributing to climate change, such as the launch of total plastic ban and other initiatives to support this cause.

----- DOC | CvSU joins oath-taking of new criminologists, receives top performing schools awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/cvsu-joins-oath-taking-of-new-criminologists-receives-top-performing-schools-awards/ | 2024-04-16 -----
Cavite State University's (CvSU) new criminologists joined other inductees in the mass oath-taking of successful examinees in the February 2024 Licensure Examination for Criminologists, and induction of new Professional Criminologist Association of the Philippines (PCAP) members, April 13, at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City. 

 The Professional Regulation Commission and Professional Regulatory Board of Criminology awarded the plaques of recognition to CvSU Main Campus and Bacoor City Campus for being second and fourth ranked schools, respectively, in the said licensure examination. 

 The university was also recognized for having board exam topnotchers in Angeline Sarno Ilagan (second place) and John Harvey Soriano Lumanlan (fifth place).  

 Receiving the said awards are Dr. Marissa C. Lontoc, CvSU College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) Officer-in-Charge; Prof. Menvyluz S. Macalalad, CvSU Bacoor City Campus Administrator; Prof. V-jay S. Eusebio, Chairperson of CCJ – BS Criminology Program; Prof. Alexis R. Alcantara, Adviser; Dr. Darius R Campos; and Mr. Murven Abiadew, Bacoor City Campus – Department of Criminology faculty member and Batch Siklab Class Adviser.

----- DOC | CvSU TMC wins PH Food Expo culinary challenge | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/cvsu-tmc-wins-ph-food-expo-culinary-challenge/ | 2024-04-16 -----
Participating faculty member and student tandem from Cavite State University (CvSU) Trece Martires City Campus emerged as champions in the 16 th Philippine Food Expo 2024 Culinary Challenge, April 12-14, at the World Trade Center in Pasay City. 

 CvSU Trece Martires City Campus Department of Hospitality Management faculty member Mr. Jess Aquino Jr. and BS Hospitality Management senior student Fermor Sumatra Jr. II. won in the “Mystery Ingredient” category, besting competitors from 35 other participating hospitality and culinary schools from Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao. 

 This three-day food and beverage event themed “Kanamit Western Visayas” featured exhibits, seminars, culinary competitions, and cooking demonstrations. (Photos courtesy of CvSU TMC Campus)

----- DOC | Orientation on GAD Planning and Budgeting for State Universities and Colleges | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/orientation-on-gad-planning-and-budgeting-for-state-universities-and-colleges/ | 2024-04-04 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) of Cavite State University (CvSU) conducted an “Orientation on Gender and Development Planning and Budgeting for State Universities and Colleges,” April 02, 2024, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 This activity gathered the University's Budget Officers, GAD Coordinators, and members of the Administrative Council. Mr. King David J. Agreda and Ms. Arlene L. Estrada were the hosts of the event. 

 

 University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles delivered an inspiring opening message where he shared articles and research focused on women and discrimination, highlighting the critical challenges surrounding gender and development. His message underscored the importance of ongoing dialogues and actions to address these pressing concerns. 

 

 Ms. Ellaine E. Todoc, Training Coordinator of GADRC, outlined the key reasons and goals for the gathering. 

 

 Mr. Patrick James G. Putungan, the Head of the GAD Technical Working Group (TWG),  started the talk by recognizing the University's vision of being a gender-responsive educational institution where all stakeholders share equal responsibilities. 

 Mr. Putungan discussed the essential policies, requirements, and procedures related to GAD planning and budgeting, highlighting the critical elements and practical applications of GAD initiatives. In addition, the speaker also tackled topics such as Essential Elements in GBP, General Guidelines in GBP, Steps in Formulating GBP, and Costing and Allocation of the GAD Budget supported. He also detailed the types of programs and projects that can be attributed to the GAD budget, providing practical examples and concrete guidelines. 

 

 Following the presentation and open forum is a workshop focused on developing GAD Plan and Budget where participants shared the proposed or ongoing GAD activities of their respective college/campus/office. 

 

 On behalf of Mr. John Xavier Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, Ms. Asuncion Reyes, Director of Finance Management Office, extended their heartfelt gratitude towards the speakers, participants, and organizers for the discussions and shared concerns that added an immense value to the deliberations on budget and planning.

----- DOC | Congratulations to our new Registered Medical Technologists! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/04/congratulations-to-our-new-registered-medical-technologists/ | 2024-04-01 -----
Cavite State University posted a 92.54% passing rate (186 out of 201 examinees) in the March 2024 Medical Technologists Licensure Examination. 

 The Professional Regulation Commission announced that 7,309 out of 9,068 passed the said licensure examination given by the Board of Medical Technology in NCR, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 The full results can be accessed here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/march-2024-medical-technologists-licensure-examination-results-released-two-2-working-days?fbclid=IwAR2R_QF7pk5cuz2pFMgzWJDUx9u4Cjzc8u3cJQQPmg5fRWaE4MBHWJUGqD8_aem_AbArtzZChFHH2uEcnEDB-PG5Wq3IOirMCyWPKCuJdO78v-YufMjhCHqk5NBoOCqsZlya4SHhCKrMU_joLKPl3dsE

----- DOC | CvSU participates in Q1 2024 nat'l simultaneous earthquake drill | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-participates-in-q1-2024-natl-simultaneous-earthquake-drill/ | 2024-03-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) students, faculty members, and employees performed the “duck, cover, and hold” as they took part in this year's 1st Quarter National Simultaneous Earthquake Drill on March 25, 2024. 

 This quarterly nationwide earthquake drill spearheaded by the Office of Civil Defense seeks to raise disaster awareness and preparedness among the public.

----- DOC | 2024 Women's Month Celebration: Gender- Responsive: A Tool for Transformative Education | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/2024-womens-month-celebration-gender-responsive-a-tool-for-transformative-education/ | 2024-03-26 -----
The Women's Month Celebration has since served as a venue to highlight women's achievements, and discuss continuing and emerging women's empowerment and gender equality issues, concerns, challenges, and commitments. 

 In continuous pursuit of mainstreaming women's empowerment and gender equality, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a three-day event in celebration of 2024 Women's Month, March 14 and 20-21, 2024, at the S.M. Rolle Hall. 

 The event centered around the theme “Gender-Responsive: A Tool for a Transformative Educational Institution,” incorporating this premise into the University's existing budget, curriculum, and research. 

 

 The first day successfully started off with the opening message given by Mr. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, where he emphasized the importance of the GAD Plan and Budget and its dissemination to the concerned participants. 

 

 Afterwards, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, resource person, delved into the “Review of Basic GAD Concepts and Overview of GAD Policy Imperatives and the Preparation of the GAD Plan and Budget.” The discussion was followed by the workshop proper where participants incorporated their learnings into the budget plan format. It was formally ended with a closing message delivered by Ms. Gilda C. Cristal, CvSU Budget Officer. 

 

 For the March 20 event, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director started the event attended by the chairpersons and faculty members representing various colleges and satellite campuses. 

 

 Following the opening remarks, the Ms. Estebat provided a review of fundamental GAD concepts. Ms. Estebat also gave an overview of the CHED CM01 services from 2015 with the inclusion of Magna Carta of Women which seeks to promote women's rights and eradicate gender discrimination. She then focused on deconstructing gender biases and promoting inclusive language and pedagogy. 

 

 Meanwhile, Prof. Arlene L. Estrada's lecture highlighted “Mainstreaming Gender in Teaching and Learning Strategies,” fostering a gender responsive institutional culture through the development of gender-inclusive policies and procedures. 

 The participants also shared and presented their course syllabus integrating gender-inclusive policies and procedures. Dr. Armi Grace B. Desingaño, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, expressed her gratitude towards the speakers, participants, and organizers, further highlighting the success of the event. 

 For the last day, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension, opened the event where he said, “Malayo pa, pero malayo na,” reflecting the collective effort shared through promoting and fighting for women's rights and gender equality in society, and how we can identify the present gender issues in our research. 

 

 Prof. Estrada reiterated the “Basic GAD Concepts and Overview of CHED CMO1, series of 2015” and delved into the “Use of Gender Lens in Research.” 

 

 This was followed by Ms. Evelyn F. Grueso, where she talked about “Mainstreaming Gender in Research” and the use of Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines. 

 

 Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Director of Research Center, wrapped up the event by highlighting the scientific basis of how gender issues are present and relative to our scientific composition as humans.

----- DOC | NCRDEC extension projects hold retooling workshop for PAKAPE mentors | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/ncrdec-extension-projects-hold-retooling-workshop-for-pakape-mentors/ | 2024-03-26 -----
PAKAPE mentors, initially honed through the PAKAPE Project, underwent another rigorous virtual and on-site training focused on farm and organizational management from February 20-22 and February 26 – March 1, 2024. 

 The PAKAPE Mentors' retooling workshop is vital in their role within their respective organizations as they lead initiatives and cascade their acquired knowledge to their fellow members.  

 Initiated online, the workshop provided a thorough discussion on organizational and development planning. Headed by NCRDEC Director Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, each mentor was tasked to participate in a vision exercise, ideally showcasing what they aim to achieve within their organization in both short- and long-term periods.  

 This was later followed by a lecture on Integrated Pest and Disease Management facilitated by Dr. Jonathan R. Digma, a professor from the Department of Biological Sciences. He provided insights into the importance of a sustainable approach in pest control as well as in utilizing bio-control agents in the field such as Beauveria bassiana.  

 The second day of the virtual lecture was handled by Ms. Novelyn Valerio, a farm manager at Finca De Garces, Bukidnon. From responsibly using inorganic inputs to emphasizing soil health through integrated nutrient management, she guided the PAKAPE mentors in fully understanding why following good agricultural practices is a must in sustaining climate-smart coffee production. 

 A week following the online series, mentors hailing from the provinces of Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal, Quezon, and Negros Occidental were accommodated at the Hostel Tropicana at Cavite State University from February 26 to March 1. This is to serve as an avenue for practicum sessions where revisiting concepts through hands-on exercises from the field will take place. As coffee farmers who are both members and officers of their respective organizations, the on-site retooling workshop also provides for intense learning sessions and discussions on coffee establishment, post-harvest handling, and attaining the best coffee quality within the region's brewscape. The week-long practicum training was facilitated by Ms. Noverio and Ms. Emeline S. Sabado, Director of the Filipino Coffee Institute.  

 PAKAPE mentors' commitment to their roles is thus measured through their active participation and engagement in trainings organized within and outside their organization, particularly in their ability to cascade their learnings to other coffee farmers within their communities. On top of this, some PAKAPE mentors will also be tapped to serve as resource persons for capacitating the target beneficiaries of the CFVC Project Phase II across MIMAROPA.  

 The workshop also served as a platform for important discussions such as gender equality and social inclusivity which was led by Mr. King David Agreda of CvSU Cavite City Campus, and proved to be integral in ensuring fair labor, sufficient access to information, and equal opportunities among men and women in the coffee industry. 

 As a concluding activity, a coffee farm tour was organized in partnership with the Barista Academy of Asia (BCAA), Curve Coffee Collaborator, and Equilibrium Inter-trade on March 1, 2024, in San Pablo, Laguna. Facilitated by Mr. Amin Ghasemzadeh, a Certified Q Grader and Sensory Instructor, PAKAPE mentors were engaged in another learning spree together with some members of the project management team. Here, participants were keen to experience a cupping scene similar to that of the annual Philippine Coffee Quality Competition.   

 As the tour commenced with an overview of the farm production area and their coffee processing facility, the cupping exercise, later on, provided an enriching experience to PAKAPE mentors as they familiarized their palate with flavors and nuances that are noteworthy among quality coffee grown throughout the country. As coffee mentors, their improved competencies will certainly benefit not just the organization they serve, but as well as the communities they are a part of. Hence, the PAKAPE IT forward movement pushes beyond boundaries to create a lasting ripple of change. (Text and photos from the official Facebook page of the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center)

----- DOC | CvSU cited as among AACCUP's top performing schools in 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-cited-as-among-aaccups-top-performing-schools-in-2023/ | 2024-03-25 -----
As a testament of its continuing efforts to sustain a culture of excellence in higher education, Cavite State University (CvSU) has been named as one of the top universities in the country with the highest number of accredited programs in 2023. 

 This as the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc., awarded CvSU as the second top performing university with the highest number of Level III and IV, and third top performing university with the highest number of Level II accredited programs in 2023. 

 In 2023, CvSU recorded a total of 63 Level II, 31 Level III, and five Level IV accredited undergraduate and graduate programs.  

 The awarding is part of the 37th Annual National Conference and General Assembly of AACCUP, Inc., March 20-22, at the Century Park Hotel in Malate, Manila. 

 Themed “Sustaining a Workplace Culture of Quality Assurance and Accreditation,” this year's conference centers on the sharing of best practices and engaging with stakeholders in building and sustaining a culture of excellence in higher education institutions (HEIs) through quality assurance (QA) and accreditation. It also focuses on strengthening institutional policies, and the approaches to enhancing QA and accreditation internalization in HEIs. 

 Among the University officials who attended the event were Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President; Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, Dean of College of Education; Dr. Cristina M. Signo, CvSU Carmona Campus Administrator; Ms. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office; Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Director for Institutional Development Office; Dr. Marlon R. Pereña, College of Engineering and Information Technology College Secretary; and Prof. Charlotte B. Carandang, Department of Information Technology Chairperson.

----- DOC | CvSU-SPRINT Center, South Seven Livestock Corporation forge partnership through the signing of MOA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-sprint-center-south-seven-livestock-corporation-forge-partnership-through-the-signing-of-moa/ | 2024-03-25 -----
A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between Cavite State University – Sugar Palm Research Information and Trade (CvSU-SPRINT) Center and South Seven Livestock Corporation (SSLC) was signed on March 20, 2024, at the University Board Room, CvSU – Don Severino de las Alas Campus.

 The MOA signing marks a strengthened partnership of both parties toward a unified purpose of managing and maximizing the potential economic and ecological use of sugar palms.

 During the signing, the CvSU and SPRINT Center were represented by For. Junser P. Magpantay, director of SPRINT Center; and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, director of Extension Services Unit. SSLC, the other party, was represented by Mrs. Rizalina Oposa, managing director; Mr. Arthuro Tolentino, general manager; Ms. Ma. Lea Anarna, farm manager; and Ms. Mariz A. Matel.

 Since 2010, SSLC has been a staunch partner of SPRINT Center in attaining its goal for a sustainable sugar palm industry. A 2-hectare portion of SSLC's privately owned farm named Queentown Farm, situated in Sitio Portugal, Brgy. Indang, Cavite, is devoted to a sugar palm plantation. This also serves as a demonstration farm for the SPRINT Center. (JBHerrera – CvSU Sprint Center)

 MOA signing between CvSU-SPRINT Center and South Seven Livestock Corporation 
  

 Attendees of the MOA signing: Mr. Jhon Laurence B. Herrera, For. Junser P. Magpantay, Mrs. Rizalina Oposa, Ms. Ma. Lea Anarna, Mr. Arthuro Tolentino, Ms. Mariz A. Matel, and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas (from left to right)

----- DOC | CvSU-ITSO gets another Platinum Cluster Award | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-itso-gets-another-platinum-cluster-award/ | 2024-03-19 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) – Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) is once again a recipient of the prestigious Platinum Award at the 2023 ITSO Clustering Awards by the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines.  

 CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU-ITSO Manager Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, and RAISE Project Science Research Assistant Gerald T. Viado received the said award during the ITSO Presidents' Summit at Dusit Thani Manila in Makati City, March 18.  

 This year's President's Summit themed “ITSO: Celebrating Collaboration, Cultivating Innovation” gave recognition to ITSO members who fulfilled the 2023 deliverables for ITSO 2.0 Clustering, and provided updates on the implementation of the ITSO program.

----- DOC | CvSU conducts Institutional Accreditation orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-officials-undergo-institutional-accreditation-orientation/ | 2024-03-19 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) officials and designated faculty members and non-academic personnel underwent a two-day General Orientation on Institutional Accreditation (IA) by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc., March 13-14. 

 Spearheaded by the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development, the said activity aims to provide participants with the necessary information about the IA process, including the preparation of the required documents, facilities, and workforce. 

 AACCUP Executive Director Dr. Mirabel E. Ho led the lecture-workshop on the IA process where a higher education institution is being assessed in nine key areas. 

 Meanwhile, AACCUP IT Officer III Mr. Dominic T. Martinez discussed the digitizing, uploading, and presentation of relevant documents for the IA survey.  

 Present in the activity are CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Vice President (VP) for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP for Planning and Development Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, VP for Administrative and Support Services Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, and VP for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac. 

 The participants were assigned in the following nine key areas for assessment, with Institutional Development Office Director Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero and Planning Office Director Engr. Orlando B. delos Reyes as the overall coordinators: (Area I) Governance and Management; (Area II) Teaching, Learning and Evaluation; (Area III) Faculty and Staff; (Area IV) Research; (Area V) Extension, Consultancy and Linkages; (Area VI) Support to Students; (Area VII) Library; (Area VIII) Infrastructure and other Learning Resources; and (Area IX) Quality Assurance Culture.

----- DOC | KMC's Dr. Francisco is 2024 Danilo T. Dayag Memorial Lecturer | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/kmcs-dr-francisco-is-2024-danilo-t-dayag-memorial-lecturer/ | 2024-03-18 -----
Cavite State University – Knowledge Management Center Director Dr. Agnes C. Francisco is the recipient of the 2024 Danilo T. Dayag (DTD) Memorial Lecture. 

 As this year's featured speaker, Dr. Francisco presented a lecture on the study “The Ethnolingustic Vitality of Isnag, Isneg Yapayao, & Itneg Tingguian in Ilocos Norte: Assessing Determinants of Language Maintenance and Shift” at the De La Salle University (DLSU) Manila, March 16.  

 Co-hosted by the Linguistic Society of the Philippines (LSP) and the Department of English and Applied Linguistics of the DLSU Br. Andrew Gonzalez FSC College of Education, the DTD Memorial Lecture was established on March 17, 2016 “to honor a distinguished scholar, linguist, mentor, and longtime LSP board member and PJL editor.” 

 Screenshot from the DLSU Department of English & Applied Linguistics – DEAL Facebook Page

----- DOC | Filipino teacher, CvSU alumnus receives teaching excellence award in New York City | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/filipino-teacher-cvsu-alumnus-receives-teaching-excellence-award-in-new-york-city/ | 2024-03-18 -----
Photo from the Fund for the City of New York website 
 A Filipino educator and Cavite State University (CvSU) PhD in Educational Management alumnus based in New York City received recognition for his dedication to help students shine in science and mathematics.  

 Dr. Eleuterio F. Timbol, Jr. is among the seven recipients of the 2024 SLOAN Award for Excellence in Teaching Science and Mathematics by the Fund for the City of New York (FCNY). 

 The award is being given to exceptional New York City public high school educators “who inspire and guide their students toward futures in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).” 

 “These teachers have demonstrated remarkable innovation in teaching, offering personalized support and designing curricula that open new pathways for students in fields such as biology, physics, robotics, and computer science. Their dedication has not only transformed their classrooms but also significantly contributed to the broader educational community,” the FCNY said in its website .  

 With 25 years as a high school teacher, Dr. Timbol currently teaches Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II, and Trigonometry at the High School for Law Enforcement and Public Safety. He is also a member of the Association of Filipino-American Teachers of America and the Association of Filipino Teachers in Eastern America. 

 In 2022, Timbol was also among the 54 public school educators in the State of New York who received the Governor's Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award in recognition of their exemplary teaching and dedication to students' success.

----- DOC | CvSU's young animal scientists emerge champions in 9th National Animal Science Quiz Contest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsus-young-animal-scientists-emerge-champions-in-9th-national-animal-science-quiz-contest/ | 2024-03-18 -----
As a testament to its commitment to excellence in animal science education, Cavite State University (CvSU) students emerged as the Overall Champion and Hayop sa Galing sa Practical Exam in the 9th National Animal Science Quiz Contest (NASQC) held at the University of the Philippines Los Baños (UPLB), March 4-8. 

 Meinard V. Cucal, Abib C. Tantiangco, Zaira Marey L. Soriano, and Marie Ysabel N. Manzano from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources – Department of Animal Science (DAS) bested other aspiring animal scientists from 15 other universities and colleges nationwide. Central Luzon State University and Mindanao State secured the second and third spots, respectively. 

 Asst. Prof. Ma. Cecille B. Anuada, Mr. Karl Louisse D. Obispo, and the Department of Animal Science Faculty served as the coaches for the participating CvSU students. 

 With the theme “Feeding the Future: Charting the Path of Livestock and Poultry Industry to Innovative and Sustainable Food Systems,” the NASC is organized by the UP Animal Society in partnership with Chooks-to-Go and in collaboration with the UPLB College of Agriculture and Food Science and the Institute of Animal Science. 

 Aside from the quiz contest proper, the event also featured PatalASSan ng Galing, week-long exhibit, educational tour, the Animal Science Summit Convention (ASSCON), and extension seminars showcasing the advancements, research, and innovations in the animal science field.

----- DOC | CvSU highlights excellence in innovations, collaborations during 118th founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-highlights-excellence-in-innovations-collaborations-during-118th-founding-anniversary/ | 2024-03-18 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) community commemorated the institution's 118 years with a two-day celebration centering on the theme “Celebrating Excellence in Collaborations and Innovations,” March 6-7.   

 University officials, students, and guests commenced the two-day celebration with a wreath-laying ceremony to honor the legacy of Don Severino Delas Alas. 

 The community also gathered for the ecumenical thanksgiving service, and the inauguration of the HEVTED East Building at the College of Education. 

 Through the collaboration of the Central Student Government and the College Student Councils, the “Kabsuhenyo Day” featured various academic and visual arts competitions, e-sports event, film festival, bench yell competition, bazaar, and other activities to showcase CvSU students' talents and skills.  

 Technological developments and innovations of participating colleges, campuses, and centers also took the spotlight at the LIKHA (Lingap sa Inobasyon, Kaalaman at Hiraya tungo sa Asensadong CvSU) Exhibit 2024 at the SM Rolle Hall. 

 During the 2nd Gawad Laya at Diwa, the University recognized the dedication and remarkable achievements of its faculty members, employees, retirees, and units who went above and beyond to contribute in fulfilling CvSU's commitment to public service and quality education for all.  

 Through the Partners' Night 2024, CvSU extended its appreciation to its partner organizations and institutions as part of the continuing initiatives to strengthen meaningful collaborations on education, research, and community engagement.   

 The University has continued its tradition of recognizing the exemplary accomplishments of CvSU students through the awarding of the Outstanding Student of the Year during the Student Convocation.  

 Members of the Administrative Council also gathered to tackle the significant role of futures thinking and value creation for the University during the seminar “Building the Futures of CvSU: Futures Thinking and Value Creation for CvSU.” 

 Meanwhile, in a bid to build a culture of lifesaving, the College of Medicine spearheaded a voluntary blood donation program, and offered free eye examination and screening for hearing impairment for employees.  

 The two-day celebration also brought together employees, students, and their “fur babies” for the “Sunduan” and the “Paws in Motion: A Community Pet Walk Event.” 

 Kabsuhenyos were also treated to some special treats and entertainment through the various health and wellness hubs, and musical performances from the CvSU Musikeros and Wish 107.5 Bus Roadshow. 

 This event capped off with fostering the culture of sportsmanship and camaraderie through the Employees' Star Olympics 2024 where CvSU faculty members and employees from different colleges and campuses battled it out in individual and team sports including basketball, volleyball, badminton, pétanque, pickleball, lawn tennis, and table tennis.

----- DOC | CvSU faculty members qualify in int'l training courses in Thailand, Australia | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-faculty-members-qualify-in-intl-training-courses-in-thailand-australia/ | 2024-03-18 -----
Three Cavite State University (CvSU) faculty members will represent the University in separate international training courses in Thailand and Australia this year.  

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean of the Graduate School and Open Learning College, and Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, University Designated Faculty Researcher and Associate Professor V, are among the official participants to the 2024 Leadership Development Program for Higher Education Institutions (LDP-HEIs) in Southeast Asia.  

 Co-organized by the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA) and The HEAD Foundation, this regional learning event aims to build the capacities of Southeast Asian higher education institution (HEI) leaders with the relevant skills and knowledge needed to effectively lead thriving and resilient universities in the region. It will run in hybrid mode from March to July 2024, with participants convening in Thailand in May 2024 for the pitching and refinement of their Re-Entry Action Plan (REAP), site visits, and lectures.   

 Meanwhile, Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar, Chairperson of the College of Education – Teacher Education Department, is a grantee of Aus4ASEAN Digital Transformation and Future Skills Initiative Short Course offered by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.  

 The two-week short course to be delivered in Australia from April 29 to May 12, 2024, is designed for ASEAN citizens working in the field of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and skills development. The course aims to facilitate an exchange on improving TVET systems, policies, and programs, including between Aus4ASEAN Short Course alumni cohorts. While in Australia, Dr. Fabregar will have an opportunity to connect with Australian government agencies and TVET training providers that are incorporating new technology into TVET training. (with report from J.P. Mendoza)

----- DOC | CvSU Main, Bacoor Campuses among top performing schools in February 2024 Criminology licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/cvsu-main-bacoor-campuses-among-top-performing-schools-in-february-2024-criminology-licensure-exam/ | 2024-03-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Main Campus and Bacoor City Campus secured the second and fourth spots, respectively, as top performing schools in the February 2024 Licensure Examination for Criminologists.  

 CvSU also produced topnotchers, with Angeline S. Ilagan in second place (91.15%) and John Harvey S. Lumanlan (90.35%) in fifth place.  

 A total of 136/138 (98.55%) examinees from CvSU Main Campus, and 50/52 (96.15%) from Bacoor City Campus passed the said exam.  

 The Professional Regulation Commission announced that 15,684 out of 32,495 passed the licensure exam given by the Board of Criminology in 28 testing centers across the country. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/february-2024-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-twenty-two-22-working

----- DOC | International Women's Month 2024: Count Her In: Invest in Women. Accelerate Progress. Inspire Inclusion. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/international-womens-month-2024-count-her-in-invest-in-women-accelerate-progress-inspire-inclusion/ | 2024-03-07 -----
In celebration of International Women's Month, the De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) in partnership with the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) of Cavite State University (CvSU) conducted a seminar on March 05, 2024 focusing on the theme “International Women's Month 2024: Count Her In: Invest in Women. Accelerate Progress. Inspire Inclusion.” 

 Ms. Ceraisa C. Lama, CMHA, CMHFR, set the stage as she welcomed everyone by sharing the contributions of every woman in the world. 

 

 The first resource speaker of the program, Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, GAD Alternate of CvSU Trece Martires City Campus, started with Gender Sensitivity Orientation where she emphasized the need to know and raise awareness about gender equality in the academe and the community. The speaker's discussion on GAD highlighted the importance of inclusive development, emphasizing that it should benefit everyone, including women, men, minorities, and people with physical disabilities. Ms. Estrada explained that the principle behind GAD is to ensure equal status and opportunities for all individuals, regardless of their background or abilities. 

 Moreover, the speaker underscored the critical role of empowering women in fostering the health and social development of families, communities, and nations. She said that when women achieve their full potential, they can contribute significantly to societal progress. However, the speaker also pointed out that empowerment must be internalized before it can be extended to others. The phrase “you can't share what you don't have” implies that individuals need to be empowered themselves, primarily through education, before they can effectively empower others. This underscores the transformative power of education in achieving personal and collective empowerment. 

 

 

 For the second session, Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of CvSU GADRC, tackled Republic Act No. 9262 or the Anti-Violence Against Women and their Children Act of 2004, citing its importance and purpose, and how it helps women and children who are abused by their partners. She also explained the types of violence such as physical, sexual, emotional or psychological abuse, and financial or economic abuse. She then encouraged everyone to speak up for themselves and for other women who experience violence. Empowering individuals to use their voices can help break the cycle of silence and contribute to meaningful change, Dr. Tan added. 

 

 Ms. Naomi M. De Aro, RN, MAN, EdD, DLSMHSI Vice Chancellor for Academics, delivered a special message where she extended her heartfelt gratitude to the organizing team of the event for their dedication and efforts. She also gave a word of appreciation to the resource persons from CvSU for sharing their expertise and insights about the topics. 

 As the program ended, Dr. Billy Jay N. Pedron, DLSMHSI Dean of Student Affairs, acknowledged the significant contributions of women in the field of medicine and allied health sciences, emphasizing their pivotal role in advancing medical knowledge. Dr. Pedron also highlighted the importance of fostering an environment that promotes gender equality, recognizing how it benefits everyone in the field. 

 

 Participants in the 2024 DLSMHSI Women's Month Celebration

----- DOC | Empowering GADvocates through managing gender-based violence cases | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/03/empowering-gadvocates-through-managing-gender-based-violence-cases/ | 2024-03-05 -----
The University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a comprehensive two-day Training Workshop on Case Management Victims of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) on February 28-29, 2024, at the Veranda, Hostel Tropicana, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite. 

 This was a pivotal initiative aimed at equipping participants with the necessary skills and knowledge to effectively manage and support victims of gender-based violence (GBV). 

 Ms. Joanne Diloy, GAD Alternate for the Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS), delivered the opening message on behalf of Ms. Sharon P. Mojica-Isip, Dean of OSAS. She welcomed the participants and emphasized the importance of acquiring counseling skills for GAD coordinators and advocates. Ms. Diloy encouraged active participation to ensure a thorough understanding of the counseling process. 

 Mr. Gino A. Cabrera, MPsy, CSIOP, CHRA, RPm, and a member of the CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool Batch 2, led the sessions on the first day. He began with “Gender-Responsive Mental Health Awareness and Stress Management,” highlighting the significance of mindfulness and the importance of being open to learning and helping others. Mr. Cabrera discussed the different contexts of gender responsiveness and addressed the realities of mental illness, covering topics such as anxiety, depression, and stress. 

 In the afternoon, Mr. Cabrera shifted focus to “Gender-Based Violence.” He provided insights into the gender dynamics in the Philippines during the COVID-19 pandemic, noting the shift of GBV to online platforms and increased burdens on women. He detailed various forms of violence and the psychosocial needs of GBV survivors, emphasizing the root causes of GBV and offering recommendations for creating safer environments. 

 The second day concentrated on handling GBV victims, with Mr. Cabrera presenting various approaches to support victims, including first-line care, medical treatment, and referrals. He introduced the OARS model (Open questions, Affirmations, Reflective listening, and summarizing) and discussed Psychological First Aid (PFA), its principles, and core actions. 

 Participants engaged in a psychodrama exercise, depicting five GBV scenarios to apply their newly acquired skills. Scenarios included addressing molestation by a stepfather, physical and psychological violence by a partner, aiding a neighbor fleeing violence, debriefing for PFA providers, and responding to a fatal GBV incident. 

 The successful workshop marked a significant step in the University's efforts to combat gender-based violence and support survivors, reinforcing the critical role of trained professionals in creating safer and more supportive communities. 

 Ms. Joanne Diloy, GAD Coordinator, OSAS delivering the opening message on behalf of Ms. Sharon M. Isip, Dean, OSAS 
 Mr. Gino A. Cabrera discussing Gender-Responsive Mental Health Awareness and Stress Management 
 Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza, GAD Coordinator, College of Education; Ms. Ely Rose Briones-Panganiban, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Bacoor Campus; and Ms. Antoneitte Viray, GAD Coordinator, College of Nursing (left to right), serve as the evaluators of the psychodrama 
 Some photo clips during the psychodrama 
 Awarding of Certificate of Appreciation to Mr. Gino A. Cabrera 
 

 The participants of the two-day Training-Workshop on Case Management

----- DOC | Legislation converting CvSU Bacoor into a regular campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/legislation-converting-cvsu-bacoor-into-a-regular-campus/ | 2024-02-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) officials headed by University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles joined the 28th Regular Committee Hearing of the House Committee on Higher and Technical Education chaired by Baguio City Lone District Rep. Mark O. Go, February 26.  

 The Committee held initial deliberation of the bills establishing campuses of state universities, including House Bill (HB) No. 9803 which seeks to convert CvSU Bacoor City Campus into a regular campus. 

 HB No. 9803 “An Act Converting the Campus of the Cavite State University located in the City of Bacoor, Province of Cavite, into a Regular Campus of the Cavite State University to be known as the Cavite State University – City of Bacoor Campus, and Appropriating Funds Therefor,” is sponsored by Cavite 2nd District Rep. Lani Mercado – Revilla, AGIMAT Party List Rep. Bryan B. Revilla, and Cavite 1st District Rep. Ramon Jolo B. Revilla III.

----- DOC | CvSU agri and biosystems engineering students bring home awards in PAEStigan X | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-agri-and-biosystems-engineering-students-bring-home-awards-in-paestigan-x/ | 2024-02-26 -----
Student delegates from Cavite State University (CvSU) – Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering brought home awards in the recently concluded PAEStigan X: The State Colleges and Universities National PAES Quiz Contest at the DL Umali Hall, University of the Philippines Los Baños, February 23-24. 

 CvSU Team 1 composed of Bachelor of Science in Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering (BSABE) students Charlene Tanuyan, Cjhaye Ron Costa, and Antessa Santillan won first runner-up in the PAEStigan Quiz Contest, with P30,000 cash prize and trophy. The team from Visayas State University – Baybay was hailed as the Quiz Contest champions, while Mindoro State University placed second runner up.  

 Meanwhile, John Bryan Alcantara, Angelyn Carandang, and Glennard Arcena of CvSU Team 2 placed eighth. 

 BSABE students Paola Mae Agulan and Naisy Ann Regla secured the fourth spot in the QGIS Challenge and the Engine and Machinery Parts Identification, respectively; Anthony Joshua Domingo and Hesed Feranil placed seventh in Tractor Driving and Hitching; and Juan Carlos Ruiz also participated in the event's AutoCAD Challenge.  

 A total of 41 participating state universities and colleges comprising biosystems and agricultural engineering students and professionals gathered for PAEStigan's 10th edition with the theme “Fostering Xcellence to Future Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers towards Food Resiliency and Sovereignty.” 

 Organized by the UP Society of Agricultural Engineering Students, PAEStigan highlights the above-mentioned contests, with guided tour, product exhibition, symposium, among other activities. (with report and photo from the Department of Agriculture and Food Engineering)

----- DOC | CvSU ka-Bios are now registered microbiologists | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-ka-bios-are-now-registered-microbiologists/ | 2024-02-26 -----
A new batch of Cavite State University (CvSU) BS Biology graduates are now newly registered microbiologists. 

 CvSU alumni Jan Cleomarie C. Cenizal, Albert P. Gimena Jr., Cristian B. Mejos, and Vheeya Flor R. Ornido successfully passed the Philippine Academy of Microbiology Certification Examination for Registered Microbiologist on January 21-22, 2024 at the SMX Convention Center Aura in Taguig City. 

 The complete list of successful examinees can be accessed here: https://philippineacademyofmicrobiology.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/2024-PAM-RMicro-EXAM-Results.pdf?fbclid=IwAR0K9AdNHNpYZvzPrmH-9M0sRwvZNTDKd71COsF5bcyoabCNfJOjbaKf2Hs

----- DOC | CvSU lab high schools top Nat'l Achievement Test performers in Cavite | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-lab-high-schools-top-natl-achievement-test-performers-in-cavite/ | 2024-02-26 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Laboratory Science High Schools (LSHS) in its Main, Naic, CCAT (Rosario), and Silang campuses are among the top five performing private schools in the Province of Cavite in the SY 2022-2023 National Achievement Test (NAT) for Grades 10 (G10) and 12 (G12). 

 For NATG10 – Problem Solving Skills, CvSU Silang Campus LSHS ranked first, CvSU Main Campus LSHS at second, CvSU CCAT Campus LSHS at fourth, and CvSU Naic Campus LSHS at fifth. 

 CvSU Main Campus LSHS topped NATG10 – Information Literacy Skills, followed by CvSU Silang Campus LSHS, CvSU Naic Campus LSHS, and CvSU CCAT LSHS. 

 Meanwhile, CvSU Main Campus placed first, CvSU Naic Campus LSHS at third, CvSU Silang Campus LSHS at fourth, and CvSU CCAT Campus LSHS at fifth in the NATG10 – Critical Thinking Skills. 

 With regard to NATG12, CvSU Main Campus LSHS registered the highest percentage scores on Problem Solving, Information Literacy, and Critical Thinking Skills. 

 As one of the “exit assessments” under the national assessment framework of the K to 12 Basic Education Program, NATG10 and NATG12 are administered to enrolled learners in public and private schools through paper-based modality.  

 This assessment is designed to determine if the learners are “meeting the learning standards” in the junior and senior high school curricula. It covers 21st-century skills (problem solving, information literacy, and critical thinking) and curriculum core learning areas including Languages, Humanities, Communication, Mathematics, Science, Social Science, and Philosophy.

----- DOC | UK envoy visits CvSU to tackle education, research opportunities | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/uk-envoy-visits-cvsu-to-tackle-education-research-opportunities/ | 2024-02-26 -----
British Ambassador to the Philippines Laure Beaufils, together with the British Council Philippines, visited Cavite State University (CvSU) on February 21 to share education and research opportunities in the United Kingdom (UK) for students, educators, and policymakers. 

 Spearheaded by the CvSU International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO), the collaborative engagement titled “Destination UK: Exploring Scholarships with the British Ambassador” at the S.M Rolle Hall gathered university officials, students, and faculty members to raise awareness, facilitate networking, and enhance bilateral relations between the two countries through educational diplomacy.  

 Among the CvSU officials present were President Dr. Hernando D. Robles; Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro; Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno; ILCLO Director Prof. Ma Veronica P. Peñaflorida; Public Affairs and Communications Office Director Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete; and members of the Administrative Council. 

 In her message, Ambassador Beaufils tackled how the UK and higher education institutions such as CvSU can strengthen people-to-people relationships through education, cultural exchange, research and development, gender empowerment, and other collaboration opportunities in areas like agriculture, food security, health, and environment. 

 These are among the programs and initiatives aimed at enhancing UK-Philippine partnerships on priority issues concerning trade and economic development, climate change, environment, maritime security, and research. 

 She also cited the “fundamental need to reinvest in basic education” to enable the younger generation to “develop their talents and potentials, and contribute to the sustainable long-term development of the country.” 

 Meanwhile, British Council Head of Education Pierre Pecson and Account Relationship Manager Abegail Boboyo gave an overview of the IELTS (International English Language Testing System), and discussed how interested students can pursue their academic aspirations through the scholarship opportunities being offered by universities in the UK.  

 Some of the top scholarship offerings include Our Women in STEM Scholarships, and the Chevening Scholarship Programme. 

 The British Council is the UK's international institution promoting cultural exchange and educational opportunities. The organization promotes peace and prosperity by fostering relationships, understanding, and trust between people in the UK and countries worldwide.  

 Across the Philippines, the British Council has trained over 6,000 people in agriculture, construction, and information technology, and more than 1,500 Technical Vocational Education and Training educators, local industry associations, and cooperatives to increase access to skills development and improve job opportunities for Filipinos.  

 University officials led by Pres. Hernando D. Robles join Ambassador Beaufils during a photo opportunity with the participants 
 British Council Head of Education Pierre Pecson and Account Relationship Manager Abegail Boboyo during their discussion on UK scholarship programs and the IELTS language test 
 (From L-R) International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office Director Prof. Ma Veronica P. Peñaflorida; Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno; Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro; President Dr. Hernando D. Robles; British Ambassador to the Philippines Laure Beaufils; British Council Head of Education Pierre Pecson; British Council Programme Coordinator Kris Anne Cortez; and British Council Account Relationship Manager Abegail Boboyo

----- DOC | CvSU, DSWD collaborate to provide job opportunities for graduates | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-dswd-collaborate-to-provide-job-opportunities-for-graduates/ | 2024-02-14 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) and the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) collaborated to provide employment opportunities for its graduates. 

 Coordinated by the CvSU Office of Alumni Affairs, this partnership is facilitated with the support of Sen. Imee R. Marcos through the DSWD – Kapit-Bisig Laban sa Kahirapan-Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services' (Kalahi-CIDSS) Cash for Work (CFW) Program.  

 The CFW Program offers employment opportunities for CvSU indigent graduates from 2022-2023 who are unemployed at the time of application. The beneficiaries are assigned in different units of the University where they are temporarily employed as office staff from 45 to 90 days. 

 CvSU will begin accepting applications for Batch 3 after the first two batches of the CFW Program created over 100 job opportunities. 

 The application forms can be downloaded through this link: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1p1MZ1Mv9z2vAqreI6J1IxZ3-F2mQcrNe?fbclid=IwAR2h2a0iBqTo4WiZ86cGovOKhkC-lddtG-Ai7eh6h5S4h9YZAaM9SvNgEzM 

 For more information about the program and the documentary requirements, interested applicants may visit the official Facebook page of the CvSU – Office of Alumni Affairs: https://www.facebook.com/cvsuoaa (with report from CvSU – Office of Alumni Affairs)

----- DOC | CvSU Silang awarded as 6th top performing school as September 2023 LEPT passers take oath | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-silang-awarded-as-6th-top-performing-school-as-september-2023-lept-passers-take-oath/ | 2024-02-12 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Silang Campus is recognized as among the top performing schools in the September 2023 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT) – Secondary Level during the oath taking ceremony for new professional teachers, February 9, at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City.  

 A certificate of recognition is awarded to CvSU Silang for their exemplary performance of 93.44% passing rate among participating schools, colleges, and universities with 50 or more examinees and with at least 80% passing percentage in the LEPT.  

 CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU Silang Campus Administrator Dr. Jocelyn L. Reyes, CvSU Silang – Teacher Education Department Chairperson Dr. Roselyn A. Ymana, and CvSU Silang – Bachelor of Secondary Education Program Coordinator Dr. Lemellu Nida L. Sarmiento received the award from the Professional Regulation Commission and the Professional Regulatory Board for Professional Teachers.  

 Meanwhile, Ms. Airish M. Bantog, a graduate of Bachelor of Special Needs Education from the Main Campus, ranked eighth for garnering 93% in the LEPT – elementary level.  

 For the overall performance, examinees for the LEPT – elementary level from CvSU Imus (10/10) and Silang (14/14) Campuses posted 100% passing rate, Naic Campus with 66.67% (4/6), Main Campus with 95.74% (45/47), and Cavite City Campus with 85% (17/20). 

 Lastly, CvSU Bacoor Campus garnered 86.21% (25/29), General Trias Campus with 100% (5/5), Imus Campus with 90.16% (55/61), Silang Campus with 93.44% (57/61), Tanza Campus with 70% (14/20), CCAT (Rosario) Campus with 79.01% (64/81), Naic Campus with 70% (28/40), Main Campus with 78.99% (188/238), Carmona Campus with 85.71% (30/35), Cavite City Campus with 70.45% (31/44), and Trece Martires City Campus with 72.73% (8/11) for the LEPT – secondary level.

----- DOC | Congratulations to CvSU's newly licensed architects! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/congratulations-to-cvsus-newly-licensed-architects/ | 2024-02-01 -----
A total of 11 out of 14 (78.57%) Cavite State University examinees passed the Licensure Examination for Architects on January 24 and 26, 2024. 

 The Professional Regulation Commission announced that 1,809 out of 2,933 examinees passed the said licensure Examination given by the Board of Architecture in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/january-2024-licensure-examination-architects-results-released-three-3-working-days/7122

----- DOC | CvSU student leader shines in 2023 Int'l Model United Nations PH | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/02/cvsu-student-leader-shines-in-2023-intl-model-united-nations-ph/ | 2024-02-01 -----
A Kabsuhenyo has taken the challenge to “inspire change and transform the world.” 

 Student leader Ms. Glenise Celis of Cavite State University is named the Best Delegate of UNESCO during the International Model United Nations (MUN) Philippines 2023, November 8-10, 2023 at the University of Asia and the Pacific in Pasig City.  

 During MUN conferences, participants assume the roles of diplomats who represent different countries, and engage in discussions and negotiations. 

 As a simulation of the United Nations (UN), the said conference provides a platform for youth participants to gain more insights on international relations, and discuss and come up with diplomatic solutions to complex global issues. It also enables them, mostly students, to enhance their public speaking and critical thinking skills.  

 In March 2024, Ms. Celis will be in Vietnam as part of the organizing committee for the IMUN 2024, and at the University of Santo Tomas MUN as a delegate of the UN Security Council representing the United Kingdom.  

 Photo from IMUN Philippines 2023 
 Photo from IMUN Philippines 2023

----- DOC | 4 CvSU campuses awarded for support to DOT – Filipino Brand of Service Excellence | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/4-cvsu-campuses-awarded-for-support-to-dot-filipino-brand-of-service-excellence/ | 2024-01-30 -----
Four Cavite State University (CvSU) campuses were among the organizations recognized during the CALABARZON Tourism Excellence Appreciation 2023 for their unwavering support to the government's push to promote the country's tourism industry. 

 CvSU Bacoor, Carmona, CCAT (Rosario), and Silang campuses were awarded with plaques of recognition from the Department of Tourism (DOT) Region IV-A in acknowledgment of their initiatives that uplift and exemplify the Filipino Brand of Service Excellence to tourists and visitors traveling to and around CALABARZON.  

 University officials composed of CvSU Silang Campus Administrator Dr. Jocelyn L. Reyes, and  BS Hospitality Management Program Coordinators Ms. Cecille S. Tuliao (CvSU Bacoor), Dr. Joan L. Fortuna (CvSU Carmona), and Ms. Aiza M. Ducha (CvSU CCAT) received the said award during the ceremony held on January 29 at Twin Lakes Hotel in Laurel, Batangas. (Photo courtesy of Dr. J.L. Fortuna)

----- DOC | Empowering Progress: CvSU GAD Coordinators craft 2023 GAD Accomplishment Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/empowering-progress-cvsu-gad-coordinators-craft-2023-gad-accomplishment-report/ | 2024-01-23 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted the Workshop on the Preparation of the 2023 Gender and Development Accomplishment Report (GADAR) on January 17-18, 2024 at the GAD Resource Center Audio-Visual Room. 

 This workshop aimed to enhance the participants' knowledge and skills in preparing GAD accomplishment report, and raise awareness about the importance of aligning it with the approved GAD plan and budget. 

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, delivered the opening message as she expressed her excitement to work together to enhance the skills and knowledge in documenting GAD initiatives. 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Head, Training and Courseware Development Division, Extension Services, oriented the participants on the Guidelines for Preparing the GADAR. She provided a brief overview of the definitions of the ten columns included in the GADAR and presented a sample template to help participants visualize the form. Ms. Estebat thoroughly explained each column, and presented the list of means of verification to guide participants on the necessary supporting documents. 

 

 In the afternoon, participants began working on their 2022 GADAR, with Ms. Estebat actively assisting and answering their questions. Common issues encountered included the computation of salary reflection, the cost of supplies and materials per activity, and the categorization of activity participants. Participants then prepared their respective 2023 GADARs. 

 Participants doing their respective 2023 GAD Accomplishment Report 
 Participants consulting Ms. Estebat regarding their Accomplishment Report 
 On the second day, participants presented their 2023 GADARs, receiving comments and suggestions from Ms. Estebat to improve their reports. Following feedback, participants revised their outputs before submission. 

 GAD Coordinators and Alternates present their 2023 Accomplishment Reports 
 Ms. Sioco delivered the closing message as she extended her heartfelt gratitude to everyone for their active participation and dedication over the past two days. She hoped that the workshop equipped GAD Coordinators and Alternates with the knowledge and tools necessary to effectively prepare GAD reports, ensuring that these are aligned with their approved plans and budgets. This activity not only strengthened the participants' capability in preparing GAD reports but also highlighted the importance of gender-responsive budgeting and reporting within the university's framework. 

 The participants of the Workshop on 2023 GAD Accomplishment Report

----- DOC | CVMBS faculty completes USDA fellowship program in US | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/cvmbs-faculty-completes-usda-fellowship-program-in-us/ | 2024-01-23 -----
Dr. Nelson J. Montialto from the Cavite State University – College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) is among the 10 Filipino fellows of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Faculty Exchange Program (FEP) on Veterinary Science and Medicine who completed the training at the University of Tennessee (UT), Knoxville.   

 This USDA-initiated fellowship intends to capacitate veterinary educators in the country in improving their teaching and research skills. Through this program, the fellows are introduced into the teaching methodologies and various assessment techniques used in the US higher education system as well as useful tips and recommendations to improve the curriculum. 

 During the fellowship, Dr. Montialto was mentored by Dr. Sreekmari Rajeev, Professor of Infectious Diseases and Director of Bacteriology and Mycology Laboratory from the UT College of Veterinary Medicine, where he was introduced to the different microbiological techniques using state of the art equipment especially with regards to AST profiling of important pathogens. 

 The fellows were also given the chance to visit livestock farms, slaughterhouses, government offices, extension centers, research institutions, and animal facilities to gain firsthand experiences on their research and extension practices. They also visited various national and zoological parks to explore the animal diversity and their conservation efforts.   

 Furthermore, the FEP provided the fellows with various seminar-training courses concerned with human, animal, and environmental health. They were also immersed in some cultural activities in the US. (with photos and report from Dr. N.J. Montialto) 

 Laboratory Animal Handling Training in one of IACUC facilities in UT 
 Smoky Mountain National Park Visit 
 Pumpkin carving (one of the cultural exposure in the US)

----- DOC | CED holds Project 3Cs phase 2 at Indang CES | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/ced-holds-project-3cs-phase-2-at-indang-ces/ | 2024-01-22 -----
The College of Education (CED) – Teacher Education Department (TED) of Cavite State University (CvSU) conducted the second phase of the  “Project 3Cs: Changing Challenging Communities through Education, Inclusiveness, and Empowerment” at Indang Central Elementary School (ICES), Indang, Cavite, January 5. 

 With the theme: “ Sama-samang Pagtutulungan ng Komunidad sa Pag-unawa, Pagmamalasakit at Pagmamahal para sa mga Batang Natatangi ,” the activity was spearheaded by Dr. Jane J. Reyes, project leader, and the Office of the Department Chair with the support of the Office of College Dean, and attended by the teachers of ICES, TED faculty extensionists, and Education Circle. 

 This activity aimed to assist the ICES teachers in determining and assessing the skills and capabilities of their learners with special needs.  

 Mr. Harold S. Cerdon, TED faculty member, presented the topic titled “Helping learners with exceptionalities succeed in the general education classroom.” He emphasized that learners should enjoy education and must have the confidence to learn with a strong sense of self-worth for them to keep going even when things are tough.  

 The CED-TED will continue to provide training and seminars to serve the community. (from College of Education)

----- DOC | Kwentong TechTrans sa Luzon: BANYUHAY Project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/kwentong-techtrans-sa-luzon-banyuhay-project/ | 2024-01-13 -----
Tunghayan ang makabuluhang talakayan kasama si Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, BANYUHAY Project team leader, kaugnay ng proyektong “Kwentong TechTrans in Luzon: Bringing Accessible Innovation to Your Homes and Community (BANYUHAY)” ng Cavite State University at Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST – PCAARRD).

----- DOC | MWSS RO and CvSU's Collaborative Journey to Gender Excellence | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2024/01/mwss-ro-and-cvsus-collaborative-journey-to-gender-excellence/ | 2024-01-04 -----
The Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System Regulatory Office (MWSS RO) paid a special visit to Cavite State University (CvSU) on January 4, 2024, at the CvSU GAD Resource Center. 

 The visit signifies a strong partnership that has significantly contributed to the gender mainstreaming effort of MWSS RO. 

 On August 14, 2023, MWSS RO, was awarded the GADTIMPALA Bronze Award for being an Outstanding Gender-Responsive Agency and the GADTIMPALA Silver Award for an Exemplary Gender and Development Focal Point System (GFPS). 

 The strong partnership between MWSS RO and CvSU began with their benchmarking activity conducted in January 2023. This activity paved the way for MWSS RO to strengthen their GAD Focal Point System by adopting CvSU's best practices in gender mainstreaming that led to the two GADTIMPALA Award bestowed to them by the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW).

----- DOC | CvSU programs pass AACCUP accreditation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cvsu-programs-pass-aaccup-accreditation/ | 2023-12-19 -----
Several programs of Cavite State University (CvSU) passed the online accreditation by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP) in July and September 2023. 

 A total of 22 programs from the Main Campus (Graduate School and Open Learning College [GS-OLC]; College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation [CSPEAR]; College of Economics, Management and Development Studies [CEMDS]; College of Arts and Sciences [CAS]; and College of Engineering and Information Technology [CEIT]), and satellite campuses in Imus, Naic, Silang, and CCAT (Rosario) were subjected to a virtual review by the assessors from AACCUP.

----- DOC | CvSU among top performing HEIs at 2023 CHED CALABARZON IZN Awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cvsu-among-top-performing-heis-at-2023-ched-calabarzon-izn-awards/ | 2023-12-19 -----
As testament of its efforts to deliver top-notch services across borders, Cavite State University (CvSU) bagged four awards at the 2023 Commission on Higher Education (CHED) CALABARZON Internationalization Awards, December 14, in Lipa City, Batangas. 

 Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office Director Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida received the Top Five Outstanding Higher Education Institution (HEI) in Internationalization award for CvSU in recognition of its efforts for advancing the internationalization of Philippine higher education. 

 CvSU is also awarded as the Top Three Performing HEI in Internationalization for Community Extension, and the Top Four Performing HEI in Internationalization for Resource Generation.  

 Lastly, the university was recognized for being the recipient of the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Stars Award in March 2023. 

 In October this year, CvSU brought home the Internationalization Champions of Nation-Building and Sustainability (ICONS) Awards 2023 – Ranking Award for its commendable performance as a three-star rated Philippine HEI by the QS World/Asia Rankings and Star Ratings.  (Photos courtesy of ILCLO)

----- DOC | CEMDS celebrates 25th founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cemds-celebrates-25th-founding-anniversary/ | 2023-12-19 -----
“Recognizing the past and looking forward to the future with a sense of purpose and commitment.” 

 This as students, faculty members, non-teaching personnel, and alumni of Cavite State University (CvSU) – College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies (CEMDS) come together to celebrate their 25th Founding Anniversary on December 6-8. 

 With the theme “CEMDS Shines @ 25,” the foundation week aimed to celebrate the history, milestones, and accomplishments of the college since its inception; and engage all members of the CEMDS community towards the fulfillment of the organization's mission, values, and goals.  

 The celebration kicked off with the Color Fun Run, Zumba, and Chant 2023; Socio-cultural and Arts Competition; launching of the Marketing Exhibit; CEMDS Students' Excellence Award; and Faculty Night. 

 Day two highlighted the CEMDS Forum themed “Development Goals and Volunteerism” and the college's Festival King and Queen 2023. 

 Bringing back the good old days, the Kabalyeros reunited for the 1st CEMDS Alumni Homecoming to cap off the College Foundation Week festivities.  (Photo courtesy of CEMDS)

----- DOC | Breaking Stigmas: Celebrating International Men's Day 2023 with CvSU MOVE KATROPA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/breaking-stigmas-celebrating-international-mens-day-2023-with-cvsu-move-katropa/ | 2023-12-13 -----
In a powerful commemoration of International Men's Day, the University's CvSU MOVE KATROPA, in collaboration with the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted an enlightening virtual event on December 12, 2023, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 The activity addressed critical issues surrounding men's mental health and their role in preventing teenage pregnancy, and highlighted the achievements of CvSU MOVE KATROPA for the fiscal year 2022-2023. 

 On behalf of Cavite State University (CvSU) President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI, Prof. King David J. Agreda, CvSU MOVE KATROPA President, delivered an inspiring opening message that set the tone for the day's discussion. Prof. Agreda highlighted the importance of recognizing and addressing men's issues while fostering a supportive and inclusive environment for their well-being. 

 

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, CvSU MOVE KATROPA Vice President, delved into the crucial topic of men's mental health, debunking myths surrounding mental illness and violence while addressing the harsh realities that men face. The discussion emphasized the importance of destigmatizing mental health issues and promoting open conversations. 

 

 Mr. Andy L. Pegris, Commission on Population Development Region IV-4A, shared insights into men's roles in preventing teenage pregnancy and its correlation with teenage violence. The session explored proactive measures that men can take to contribute to the prevention of teenage pregnancies, fostering responsible relationship and reducing instances of violence among youth. 

 

 Afterwards, Prof. Agreda presented the organization's accomplishments for the fiscal year 2022-2023. The achievements highlighted the group's dedication to addressing men's issues, promoting gender equality, and contributing to the well-being of the academic community. 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension, delivered the closing message that encapsulated the significance of the discussions and initiatives presented throughout the event. Dr. Talactac expressed gratitude for the collective efforts to bring awareness of men's issues and foster a culture of support and understanding. 

 Ensuring a seamless flow of discussion, Mr. Richard Perez, In-Charge for Planning and Monitoring, CVSU MOVE KATROPA served as the moderator for this event. (MCPSioco) 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice-President for Research and Extension (left); Mr. Richard Perez, GAD Alternate, CvSU CCAT Campus (right). 
 The participants of the webinar on 2023 Men's Day Celebration.

----- DOC | 2023 Celebration of the 18 Day Campaign to End VAW – Harmony in Diversity: Unveiling SOGIE and Human Rights | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/2023-celebration-of-the-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw-harmony-in-diversity-unveiling-sogie-and-human-rights/ | 2023-12-13 -----
To raise awareness about the dimensions of human sexuality and prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, or expression, the Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) held an activity entitled “Understanding SOGIE and Human Rights” on December 12, 2023, via Zoom Video Conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 Mx. Pent Elyria Dawn V. Liongson, an Independent Gender Specialist, provided a comprehensive presentation on the relationship between SOGIE and human rights, highlighting the challenges faced by individuals with diverse sexual orientation and gender identities, and emphasized significance of respecting and protecting their human rights. 

 

 The webinar also included a Brochure-making Contest, in which winners were recognized for their outstanding contributions. Ms. Mikaella Margarette D. Dichoso, CvSU Bacoor Campus, took first place; Ms. Shaine Maoui Fernandez, CvSU Silang Campus, won second place; and Ms. Lei Andrea H. De Guzman, CvSU Bacoor Campus, and Mr. Ralion Vincent E. Mosquera, CvSU Silang Campus, won third place.  

 The webinar also featured the winners of the 2022 CvSU Search for Most Outstanding GAD Implementor, with CvSU Cavite City Campus winning the Gender-Responsive College/Campus/Unit award, and Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator of CvSU Cavite City Campus and CvSU MOVE KATROPA President, receiving the Most Outstanding GAD Advocate award. 

 Winners of the Brochure Making Contest 
 CvSU Search for Most Outstanding GAD Implementor winners 
 On behalf of Ms. Sharon P. Mojica-Isip, Dean of the Office of Student Affairs and Services, Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication of GADRC, expressed gratitude to the speakers, participants, and organizers, emphasizing the significance of continued dialogue and action in promoting understanding and inclusivity. 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda moderated the event, ensuring smooth transitions and maintaining a conducive atmosphere for learning. (MCPSioco) 

 Participants of the Webinar on Understanding SOGIE and Human Rights

----- DOC | Dr. Signo elected as ASEAN-QAA country representative | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/dr-signo-elected-as-asean-qaa-country-representative/ | 2023-12-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Carmona Campus Administrator Dr. Cristina M. Signo has been elected as the Country Representative for 2023-2025 to the ASEAN-QA Association (ASEAN-QAA).   

 ASEAN-QAA is an association composed of individuals involved in the development of quality assurance in South East Asia higher education institutions.  

 The declaration of election results was announced during the ASEAN-QA Forum 2023 at Politeknik Negeri Bandung in Indonesia. Other Country Representatives are from De La Salle University-Dasmarińas and University of the Philippines-Diliman.  

 The ASEAN-QAA is in partnership with the ASEAN Quality Assurance Network, the ASEAN University Network, the German Academic Exchange Service, the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, the German Rectors´ Conference, the University of Potsdam, and the Regional Centre for Higher Education and Development (SEAMEO RIHED). (CvSU Carmona Campus)

----- DOC | CvSU's Bantog places 8th in LEPT | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cvsus-bantog-places-8th-in-lept/ | 2023-12-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new licensed professional teachers! 

 The Philippine Regulation Commission announced that 23,782 out of 50,593 (47.01%) elementary teachers and 53,995 out of 95,969 (56.26%) secondary teachers successfully passed the September 2023 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT). 

 CvSU's Airish M. Bantog, a graduate of Bachelor of Special Needs Education from the College of Education, ranked 8th place in the elementary level with a 93.00% rating. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/september-2023-results-licensure-examination-professional-teachers-released-fifty-five-55?fbclid=IwAR0M9ztIjwyXJrBPnDqwsSU-qtJjaA7UHN3h1O7RT7LjOvH1TRX4R3dNlz4

----- DOC | Camarines Norte State College CEID visits CvSU to learn GAD best practices | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/camarines-norte-state-college-ceid-visits-cvsu-to-learn-gad-best-practices/ | 2023-12-06 -----
Aimed to capacitate new Gender and Development coordinators by delving into Cavite State University's (CvSU) best practices on sustainable programs, research projects, linkages, and mainstreaming practices, the Camarines Norte State College (CNSC) Center for Equity, Inclusivity, and Diversity (CEID) visited CvSU on December 5, 2023. 

 Sharing of CvSU's Best Practices 
 The CNSC CEID sought to leverage the collective experience of CvSU's GADRC to enhance their own initiatives. Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication of GADRC, highlighted CvSU's achievements in gender mainstreaming, emphasizing the four (4) entry points of the evaluation framework. She noted that CvSU has successfully implemented sustainable programs that promote gender equality and inclusivity, fostering a dynamic and supportive environment. 

 Ms. Sioco added that the institutions have established robust linkages and partnerships that amplify impacts of gender and development initiatives, showcasing the importance of collaborative efforts. She emphasized how the unwavering support from the top management led to the University's remarkable achievement as a four-time recipient of the Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon. 

 The delegation from the CEID expressed gratitude for the valuable insights gained, with a determination to implement these newfound practices within their own center. (MCPSioco) 

 Former OIC of the GADRC Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC (left) and CEID Director Dr. Delma Jean V. Abad while discussing the CvSU GADRC's best approaches to GAD.

----- DOC | CvSU's Sustrina ranks 6th in agriculturists licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cvsus-sustrina-ranks-6th-in-agriculturists-licensure-exam/ | 2023-12-06 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU)'s Brian Angelo R. Sustrina ranked sixth with 86.17% rating in the November 2023 Agriculturists Licensure Examination. 

 Overall, a total of 23 out of 29 examinees (79.31%) from CvSU passed the licensure examination. 

 The Professional Regulation Commission announced on December 4 that 3,423 out of 10,014 passed the examination given by the Board of Agriculture in 19 testing centers all over the Philippines. 

 See full details here: https://prc.gov.ph/article/november-2023-agriculturists-licensure-examination-results-released-seven-7-working-days?fbclid=IwAR0SBUIkPU0BgqTHjgHVgdIZC4hMzjrsam26DX2erg50MpeBK7y4cpssV4s

----- DOC | 2023 Celebration of the 18 Day Campaign to End VAW – Empowering Education: A Webinar on the Guidelines for Addressing Gender-Based Sexual Harassment in HEIs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/2023-celebration-of-the-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw-empowering-education-a-webinar-on-the-guidelines-for-addressing-gender-based-sexual-harassment-in-heis/ | 2023-12-05 -----
Aiming to elevate awareness within the Cavite State University (CvSU) community regarding gender-based sexual harassment in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs), the University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar on Commission on Higher Education (CHED) CMO No. 03, series of 2022: Guidelines on Gender-Based Sexual Harassment in HEIs on December 4, 2023, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI, University President, emphasized the university's commitment to a safe and inclusive environment. Dr. Robles highlighted the significance of understanding and addressing gender-based sexual harassment. 

 Dr. Francisco, discussing the Gender-Based Sexual Harassment (GBSH) 
 Dr. Renifer R. Francisco, National GAD Resource Pool Batch 4, Philippine Commission on Women, discussed the distinctions of CHED CMO No. 03, series of 2022. Her discussion delved into the guidelines, their implications, and the proactive measures HEIs can take to prevent and address gender-based sexual harassment on academic community. 

 To formally conclude the webinar, Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, delivered the closing message, summarizing the key takeaways from the webinar. Dr. Ilagan emphasized the collective responsibility of the academic community in fostering an environment free from gender-based sexual harassment. 

 The webinar was moderated by Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Carmona Campus. 

 Participants of the Webinar on CHED CMO No. 03, series of 2022

----- DOC | CvSU posts 100% passing rate in nursing board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/12/cvsu-posts-100-passing-rate-in-nursing-board-exam/ | 2023-12-04 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) posted a 100% passing rate in the recent Philippine Nurses Licensure Examination. 

 A total of 25,761 out of 32,203 (80%) passed the licensure exam given by the Board of Nursing in 19 testing centers in the country in November 2023. 

 See full results here: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/november-2023-philippine-nurses-licensure-examination-results-released-fourteen-14-working?fbclid=IwAR3nSD1A-Qg2Mwx6uCN3KUiOlmD97m184OBn_n6mABx3js43LRlVgeQcroU

----- DOC | SEARCA grantee in StratCom4HEIs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/searca-grantee-in-stratcom4heis/ | 2023-11-30 -----
Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, designated Faculty Researcher and Associate Professor V, represented Cavite State University (CvSU) as SEARCA grantee-participant to the five-day training workshop on Strategic Communication Planning Workshop: Enhancing Communication Skills for Higher Education Institutions in the Philippines (StratCom4HEIs) held at the SEARCA Headquarters, Los Baños, Laguna on 20-24 November 2023.  

 This planning workshop is part of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED)-funded project titled Leveling-Up Philippine Higher Education Institutions in Agriculture, Fisheries, and Natural Resources (LevelUPHEI AFAR) through the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA), together with the State Universities and Colleges-Association of Colleges of Agriculture in the Philippines, Inc. (SUC-ACAP, Inc.). 

 The StratCom4HEIs training-workshop aims to empower the participants to create strategic communication plans for specific projects they are involved in. It also aims to bolster the participants' communication skills, particularly in craftingand developing relevant communication materials. 

 As a Re-entry Action Plan, Dr. Crizaldo has identified a key issue in agricultural universities like CvSU on the need to step up its efforts in attracting the youth in the field that feeds the country through food and livelihood security. Hence, the proposed strategic communication plan on Cultivating the Interest in Agriculture Careers among TVL Senior High School Students in Indang, Cavite is expected to encourage the youth, specifically the Senior High School students under the Technical-Vocational-Livelihood strand, to pursue careers in agriculture. ( by Rhodora S. Crizaldo)

----- DOC | Outstanding CvSU researchers, extensionists reap awards in STCIEERD Research Summit, PhilEASnet Extension Symposium | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/outstanding-cvsu-researchers-extensionists-reap-awards-in-stcieerd-research-summit-phileasnet-extension-symposium/ | 2023-11-30 -----
Outstanding Cavite State University researchers and extensionists reaped awards in separate research and extension symposia held on November 28-29. 

 Dr. Almira G. Magcawas secured the second place in the Search for Outstanding in Extension Practitioner Award, and Dr. Racquel G. Agustin won third place in the Search for Outstanding in Extension Research Paper Award during the 2023 PhilEASnet Virtual Extension Symposium and General Assembly held via Zoom. 

 With the theme “Enhancing rural development through digital extension and advisory services,” the extension symposium was organized by the Philippine Extension and Advisory Services Network Inc. in partnership with the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST-PCAARRD), Agricultural Training Institute, Department of Agriculture (DA)-Philippine Rice Research Institute, and DA-Philippine Carabao Center.  

 Photos from Cavite State University – Extension Services 
 Meanwhile, CvSU researchers also brought home awards during the 1st Southern Tagalog Consortium for Industry, Energy, and Emerging Technology Research and Development (STCIEERD) Research Summit at Batangas State University in Batangas City, with the theme “Harnessing the Power of Emerging Technologies for Economic Growth and Social Impact.” 

 Ross John M. Arendela, Robert Allen I. Ebora, Joseph Louis Michael C. Ramos, and Dr. Erwin R. Arboleda from the College of Engineering and Information Technology won the Best Paper for their bee research titled “IoT Stingless Bee Colony Monitoring System.” 

 Photos from Cavite State University BRITE Center 
 The Best Poster Award was given to the research titled “Activated Carbon from Sugar Palm (Arenga pinnata) Waste Product” by Engr. Sheryl Dinglasan Fenol, Lorenzo Lapitan Jr., Jhon B. Laurence Herrera, Daeniel Zarene P. Mojica, and Joven Charles C. Marasigan and Luigi Punongbayan (layout artists).  

 Photos from Cavite State University – Research Center 
 Finally, Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome bagged the Best Presenter Award for his presentation on the “Assessment of the On-road Performance of HEVs and EVs in Urban Road Conditions in the Philippines.” 

 Photos from Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome

----- DOC | 2023 Celebration of the 18 Day Campaign to End VAW: Exploring the Safe Spaces Act R.A. No. 11313 and CSC MC No. 11, series 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/2023-celebration-of-the-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw-exploring-the-safe-spaces-act-r-a-no-11313-and-csc-mc-no-11-series-2021/ | 2023-11-29 -----
To gain a deeper understanding of the legal frameworks surrounding safe spaces, the University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) organized a dynamic webinar on the legal dimensions of creating safe spaces through the Safe Spaces Act R.A. No. 11313 and CSC MC No. 11, series 2021, Introducing Amendments to the Administrative Disciplinary Rules on Sexual Harassment Cases on November 29, 2023, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 

 On behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI, University President, Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC delivered an empowering opening message, emphasizing the institution's commitment to fostering safe and respectful spaces. Dr. Tan set the tone for an insightful discussion on legal frameworks aimed at curbing harassment and fostering a culture of respect. 

 

 Atty. Evelyn “Leo” D. Battad, Associate Professor at the University of the Philippines College of Law, discussed Bawal ang Bastos and the Safe Space Act R.A. No. 11313, which aim to create a safe environment for everyone, particularly women and LGBTQ+ members, by penalizing gender-based sexual harassment and that the law defines and prohibits catcalling, wolf-whistling, unwanted sexual comments, and any form of gender-based harassment that causes public humiliation. 

 
 Atty. Battad also discussed CSC MC No. 11, series 2021, which introduced amendments to the Administrative Disciplinary Rules on Sexual Harassment Cases, which impact the handling of sexual harassment cases within the Philippine Civil Service. 

 Following the legal discourse, Vice Presidents of the university including, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension; and Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development, delivered powerful statements of commitment in ending Violence against Women (VAW). Their declaration reinforced the institution's dedication to creating an environment free from harassment and discrimination. 

 
 Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VPAA (left); Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, VPPD (right), Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, VPRE (bottom) delivering their statement of commitments to end VAW. 

 
 Ms. Eileen I. Cubillo, Director, Human Resource and Development Office, delivered the closing message that encapsulated the significance of the legal insights shared during the webinar. Her message emphasized the collective responsibility to create safe and inclusive spaces within the university. Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, GAD Alternate, CvSU Naic Campus moderated this event. 

 Ms. Eileen I. Cubillo, Director, Human Resource and Development Office (left); Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Naic Campus (right). 
 Participants of the Webinar on Bawal ang Bastos.

----- DOC | Congratulations to the new CvSU licensed Civil Engineers! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/congratulations-to-the-new-cvsu-licensed-civil-engineers/ | 2023-11-28 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) posted a 65.32% passing rate in the November 2023 Civil Engineers Licensure Examination. 

 A total of 81 out of 124 CvSU examinees passed the Civil Engineers licensure exam with a 33.26% national passing rate. 

 This examination was given by the Board of Civil Engineering in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Calapan, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Palawan, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao and Zamboanga. 

 The full results can be accessed here: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZIX_GDVMJtzX7EAcGyFrjmWpEXy-HOot/view

----- DOC | CvSU joins talks on student mobility, metaverse technology in SEA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/cvsu-joins-talks-on-student-mobility-metaverse-technology-in-sea/ | 2023-11-28 -----
Southeast Asian higher education institutions (HEIs) including Cavite State University (CvSU) joined talks on embracing metaverse in education during the Southeast Asia Student Mobility and Advanced Metaverse Technology Summit, November 21-23, at the University of Northern Philippines (UNP) in Vigan City, Ilocos Sur. 

 Organized by the SEAMEO Regional Centre for QITEP in Science (SEAQIS) in collaboration with UNP, this activity participated by CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro and College of Education Dean Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer seeks to establish partnerships among SEA HEIs on student mobility and metaverse technology. 

 According to SEAQIS, partner institutions will be given opportunities to further develop linkages through participation and engagement in programs and discussions on research and academic and cultural exchanges.  

 The concept of Multicampus of SEAMEO Center as a “transformative solution” was also introduced – enabling students to immerse in personalized and interactive learning experiences, collaborate with peers worldwide, and bridge geographical and socioeconomic gaps that hinder access to quality education.

----- DOC | Giant Christmas tree lighting kicks off Paskuhan sa CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/giant-christmas-tree-lighting-kicks-off-paskuhan-sa-cvsu/ | 2023-11-21 -----
It is that time of the year again as the Cavite State University (CvSU) community kicked off the Paskuhan festivities with a showcase of talents and camaraderie during the annual giant Christmas tree lighting, November 15, at the University Plaza. 

 In his message, CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles recognized the unwavering support and cooperation of the officials, faculty members, employees, and the studentry in achieving all the University accomplishments and milestones since the start of the pandemic. 

 According to Dr. Robles, much has improved when it comes to the facilities and amenities, including the newly inaugurated housing units at the Faculty Village, the HEVTED (Home Economics Vocational and Technical Education Department) Building of the College of Education, and the Bahay ng Alumni. He added that the improvement and construction of other college buildings are already in the pipeline.  

 Moreover, Dr. Robles lauded CvSU's exemplary achievements in the licensure examinations, with the university recently producing topnotchers from its engineering, veterinary medicine, and midwifery programs.  

 The event also highlighted performances from the CvSU Chorale Ensemble, PRIME Moverz, CvSU Cultural Dance Troupe, Student Artisté Society (StArs), Sofia Yesha Napoles, Czarina Angelin Antonio, Russel Simon Roxas, and Kian Joy Guarin.

----- DOC | CvSU GAD advocates participate in 11th Regional GAD Convention | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/cvsu-gad-advocates-participate-in-11th-regional-gad-convention/ | 2023-11-15 -----
The university's Gender and Development Resource Centre (GADRC) participated in the 11th Regional Gender and Development (GAD) Convention with the theme: “Transforming the Region through Gender-Responsive Development,” sponsored by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) on November 15, 2023, at Hotel Marciano in Calamba City, Laguna. The convention promises a day of insights, collaboration, and a shared commitment to fostering positive change. 

 Afterwards, the Gender and Development Resource Center of the Cavite State University (CvSU) was honored with a plaque for being a four-time recipient of the Most Outstanding GAD Implementer (SUC Category) award. This acknowledgement demonstrates the center's unwavering commitment to advancing gender equality and promoting inclusive practices. 

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC receiving the plaque of Recognition along with other CvSU delegates.

----- DOC | CvSU, UNWAHAS conduct multidisciplinary lecture series on ASEAN perspective | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/cvsu-unwahas-conduct-multidisciplinary-lecture-series-on-asean-perspective/ | 2023-11-15 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) and partner institution Universitas Wahid Hasyim ([UNWAHAS] Wahid Hasyim University Indonesia) held a three-day conference titled “Cultural Confluences: A Multidisciplinary Lecture Series on ASEAN Perspective,” November 8-10. 

 Visiting professors from UNWAHAS composed of Dr. Indah Hartati, Fandy Indra Pratama, Arief Hidayat, Farikha Maharani, and Khanifah Se shared their expertise on research and application of information technology (IT) for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and food industry.  

 This activity was conducted in collaboration with the International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office; College of Engineering and Information Technology; College of Economics, Management and Development Studies; College of Education; and College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources.  

 The lecture series started with discussions on the current status of halal certification of SMEs in Central Java; the role of IT in SMEs' performance in Indonesia; halal tourism in Indonesia; high quality assurance in the food industry; synergizing perspectives: role of chatbots in MSMEs for seamless customer service integration; and research methodology. 

 For day two, the lecture focused on research collaboration highlighting the identification of Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) of SMEs of palm sugar and local food in Indang.  

 The activity capped off with a community visit focusing on the application of chatbot and implementation of HACCP for SMEs of palm sugar and local food producers in the municipality.  

 UNWAHAS lecturers also visited CvSU's Agri-Eco Tourism Park; National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center; Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center; and the University Historical and Cultural Museum.  

 This year, CvSU and UNWAHAS entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on academic, research, and social service cooperation where they will undertake institutional exchange, joint research and social services activities, and exchange of academic materials and other scientific information, among other related activities.

----- DOC | Pres. Robles attends ISSAAS int'l congress 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/pres-robles-attends-issaas-intl-congress-2023/ | 2023-11-09 -----
MUNTINLUPA CITY – Cavite State University (CvSU) President Dr. Hernando D. Robles attended the opening program of the three-day International Society for Southeast Asian Agricultural Sciences (ISSAAS) International Scientific Congress and General Meeting 2023 with the theme “Integrated Management of Southeast Asian Agricultural Landscapes,” November 8-10. 

 As one of the partner organizations of ISSAAS Philippines, this platform also serves as an opportunity for CvSU to network with other researchers, scientists, and educational institutions, including Học viện Nông nghiệp Việt Nam (Vietnam Academy of Agriculture) and Tokyo University of Agriculture.  

 Composed of professionals, researchers, and academics from Japan, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, and the Philippines, ISSAAS aims to strengthen cooperation of agricultural scientists in the Asian and Southeast Asian regions, and promote the progress and development of agricultural sciences towards regional agricultural development.  

 In support of the Sustainable Development Goals, the congress will focus on four subthemes: Food Security and Managing Agricultural Risks; Soil and Water Conservation in the Agricultural Landscape; Enhancing Climate Resilience of Agricultural Systems across the Landscape; and Adapting to Changing Markets in Agriculture through Market Systems and Incentives.

----- DOC | Cavite State U joins initiatives for safer media community | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/08/cavite-state-u-joins-initiatives-for-safer-media-community/ | 2023-11-08 -----
Cavite State University took part in the second leg of the 2023 Nationwide Media Summit “Promoting a Free and Responsible Press towards a Safer Media Community,” November 7, at the Royale Tagaytay Country Club in Alfonso, Cavite. 

 Faculty members and information officer from the College of Arts and Sciences – Department of Communication and the Public Affairs and Communications Office attended the Central Luzon – Southern Tagalog leg organized by the Office of the President – Presidential Task Force on Media Security (PTFoMS) in partnership with the Public Attorney's Office (PAO).  

 PTFoMS Executive Director Usec. Paul M. Gutierrez and PAO Chief Atty. Persida V. Rueda-Acosta led the summit which aims to reintroduce the recalibrated PTFoMS mandated to protect the life, liberty, and security of media workers. 

 PTFoMS is created by virtue of Administrative Order (AO) No. 01 “Creating the Presidential Task Force on Violations of the Right to Life, Liberty, and Security of the Members of the Media.” 

 Free legal consultations with the members of the media community were also conducted by lawyers from PAO.  

 This nationwide seminar covered discussions on AO No. 01 by PTFoMS Chief of Staff Atty. Hue Jyro U. Go; and responsible reporting/commentaries in times of war and threats through the application of International Humanitarian Law (IHL) by IHL expert and Ateneo Law School international law professor Atty. Evecar Cruz-Ferrer. 

 Meanwhile, CALABARZON Regional Public Attorney Atty. Revelyn V. Ramos-Dacpano tackled libel and cyber libel; Bangsamoro Press Corps president and Bangsamoro Information Office Deputy Executive Director Mr. Ali G. Macabalang delved into the basic ethical guidelines for media workers and the effects of irresponsible journalism; and Gender and Development Expert Mr. Alvin Cloyd H. Dakis discussed the use of gender fair language in news writing and reporting.  

 The participants also signed the pledge of commitment to promote a free and responsible press for a safer media community.

----- DOC | October 2023 Electronics Engineers and Electronics Technicians Licensure Examinations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/06/october-2023-electronics-engineers-and-electronics-technicians-licensure-examinations/ | 2023-11-06 -----
Congratulations to our new Registered Electronics Engineers and Electronics Technicians! 

 
 Engr. Jacob Delgado Mojares of Cavite State University (CvSU) – Main Campus ranked 6th with 86.70% passing rate in the October 2023 Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination. 

 
 A total of 6 out of 10 (60%) examinees from CvSU passed the Electronics Engineers Licensure Examination, while all eight examinees (100%) from the Main Campus hurdled the Electronics Technicians Licensure Examination. 

 
 See full results here: 

 https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/october-2023-electronics-engineers-licensure-examination-results-released-three-3-working#:~:text=The%20Professional%20Regulation%20Commission%20(PRC,%2C%20Cebu%2C%20Davao%2C%20Iloilo%2C

----- DOC | First Semester SY 2024-2025 Application for Admission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/11/06/first-semester-sy-2024-2025-application-for-admission/ | 2023-11-06 -----
𝐀𝐏𝐏𝐋𝐈𝐂𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐅𝐎𝐑 𝐀𝐃𝐌𝐈𝐒𝐒𝐈𝐎𝐍 𝐟𝐨𝐫 𝐅𝐈𝐑𝐒𝐓 𝐒𝐄𝐌𝐄𝐒𝐓𝐄𝐑 𝐒.𝐘. 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟒-𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟓 𝐛𝐞𝐠𝐢𝐧𝐬 𝐨𝐧 𝐍𝐎𝐕𝐄𝐌𝐁𝐄𝐑 𝟔, 𝟐𝟎𝟐𝟑!

 
 
 

 
 𝗢𝗡𝗟𝗜𝗡𝗘 𝗔𝗣𝗣𝗟𝗜𝗖𝗔𝗧𝗜𝗢𝗡 𝗟𝗜𝗡𝗞𝗦:

 Start of Application: November 6, 2023

 𝙈𝙖𝙞𝙣 𝘾𝙖𝙢𝙥𝙪𝙨 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙤𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝘾𝙖𝙢𝙥𝙪𝙨𝙚𝙨:

 https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission 

 
 𝘾𝘾𝘼𝙏 𝘾𝙖𝙢𝙥𝙪𝙨:

 Start of Application: January 15, 2024

 Online Application link will be posted on the official CCAT OSAS FB Page. Kindly visit :

 https://www.facebook.com/CvSUCCATOSAS?mibextid=LQQJ4d 

 
 𝙏𝙧𝙚𝙘𝙚 𝙈𝙖𝙧𝙩𝙞𝙧𝙚𝙯 𝘾𝙞𝙩𝙮 𝘾𝙖𝙢𝙥𝙪𝙨:

 Start of Application: February 6, 2024

 https://cvsu-trececampus.com/home/admission/ 

 
 Please see photos for more information.

----- DOC | CvSU participates in 1st Regional Research and Innovation Week | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/26/cvsu-participates-in-1st-regional-research-and-innovation-week/ | 2023-10-26 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) joined other member institutions of the Southern Tagalog Agriculture, Aquatic, and Resources Research Development and Extension Consortium (STAARRDEC) during the 1st Regional Research and Innovation Week (RRIW) held at the D.L. Umali Hall, University of the Philippines Los Baños, October 23-26. 

 With the theme, “Catalyzing Regional Advancement through Research and Innovation,” research and development, technology transfer, ICT, and science communication representatives of the consortium member institutions showcased their products, technologies, and research and development projects through the 36th Regional Symposium on Research, Development, and Extension Highlights; 2nd Student Congress; 1st Regional Agri-Aqua Innovation System Enhancement (RAISE) Summit; and Technology Expo. 

 CvSU President and STAARDEC Regional Research and Development Coordinating Council Chairperson Dr. Hernando D. Robles delivered his opening message for the week-long celebration. 

 The 1st RRIW aims to promote research and innovation culture, disseminate knowledge, encourage interdisciplinary collaboration, create networking opportunities, inspire and motivate various stakeholders, engage with the public, showcase impact of Research, Development, and Extension (RDE) endeavors, gather feedback for improvement, attract funding and support, and celebrate achievement. 

 (Photo from the STAARRDEC Facebook Page)

----- DOC | DLSMHSI benchmarks CvSU's Initiatives in Gender and Development | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/dlsmhsi-benchmarks-the-cvsus-initiatives-in-gender-and-development/ | 2023-10-25 -----
In a spirit of collaboration and knowledge exchange, the Minority and Multicultural Unit of the De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) embarked on a benchmarking activity at the Cavite State University's (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) on October 25, 2023, at the Board Room, CvSU Administration Building, Indang, Cavite. 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI, University President, along with the CvSU employees (from GADRC and Public Affairs and Communications Office) warmly welcomed the visitors from DLSMHSI. The delegation from DLSMHSI sought to gain insight into CvSU's Gender Responsiveness Curricular Program, including Pedagogical Support Guidelines (PSGs), educational materials, and faculty training initiatives. The objective was to understand and adapt best practices that could be seamlessly integrated into their own academic landscape. 

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication, GADRC, led the sharing session, providing a comprehensive overview of CvSU's best practices in gender and development. She particularly highlighted the institution's achievements through the four (4) entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF), demonstrating how gender responsiveness permeates through various facets of the university such as gender-responsive curriculum, faculty training, institutional mechanisms, and research and extension services. Ms. Sioco emphasized that CvSU's remarkable achievements in gender and development were made possible through unwavering support from the top management wherein, recognition highlights the crucial role that leadership commitment plays in successfully implementing and sustaining gender-responsive programs. 

 Ms. Sioco discussing the CvSU Best Practices in Gender and Development through the four (4) Entry Points to Gender Mainstreaming. 
 The benchmarking activity concluded with an exchange of ideas, fostering a sense of collaboration and shared commitment to advancing gender equality. The delegation from the DLSMHSI expressed gratitude for the enriching experience, with plans to implement newfound insights within their institution. (MCPSioco) 

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC and delegates from DLSMHSI exchange ideas. 
 A group photo of the GADRC staff and delegates from the DLSMHSI. 
 Delegates from the DLSMHSI visited the Agri-Eco Tourism Park.

----- DOC | College of Medicine highlights push for One Health approach in first founding anniversary celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/25/college-of-medicine-highlights-push-for-one-health-approach-in-first-founding-anniversary-celebration/ | 2023-10-25 -----
Celebrating a legacy of excellence and compassion in the field of medical education, the Cavite State University – College of Medicine (CvSU – COM) marked its first founding anniversary with the theme “Building a Healthy Future Together through One Health,” October 25, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 COM Dean Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez opened the celebration by underscoring how the theme embodies the essence of the college's mission that “goes beyond the boundaries of traditional healthcare,” emphasizing the interconnectedness of all life on earth and the responsibility to work collaboratively for a healthier and more sustainable future.  

 For his part, University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles recognized the collaborative efforts of the pioneer faculty members and staff of the college, together with the Provincial Government of Cavite and the Provincial Health Office, in realizing the establishment of COM following the enactment of Republic Act No. 11509 or the “Doktor Para Sa Bayan Act.” 

 Dr. Robles also expressed his full support to the college as he believes it is high time to produce more doctors to the barrios in line with the One Health approach, ensuring a future with a healthy nation and population.  

 In a recorded keynote message, Department of Health (DOH) Secretary Teodoro J. Herbosa highlighted the role of the college and stakeholders in fulfilling the commitment to build a stronger health system for every Filipino where “bawat buhay ay mahalaga tungo sa bagong Pilipinas.”  

 Meanwhile, in a video message, Sen. Christopher Lawrence “Bong” T. Go acknowledged how the establishment of COM made medical education more accessible to those residing in Cavite and nearby provinces, and helped in strengthening the healthcare system in the region amid the pandemic.  

 As an expression of support to COM, Cavite 7th District Board Member Francisco Gabriel D. Remulla, representing Gov. Juanito Victor C. Remulla, also emphasized the college's significant contribution in the prioritization of health and safety of every Caviteño. 

 A Certificate of Appreciation is also awarded to Dr. Galvez in recognition of her extraordinary leadership as the founding dean of COM, and her exceptional contributions in establishing and supervising the college. 

 Also highlighted in the event is the launching of the University's voluntary blood donation program with the ceremonial Memorandum of Agreement signing between CvSU – COM and the DOH – Philippine Blood Center.  

 According to International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office Director Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, this program aims to foster a culture of compassion, responsibility, and community engagement among students, faculty, and staff; promote awareness about regular blood donations; and help improve public health.  

 The founding anniversary celebration also presented an Academic Symposium on One Health in collaboration with the College of Engineering and Information Technology; the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources; the College of Nursing; and the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences. 

 COM faculty and students capped the celebration with collab events that include quiz bee, Mr. and Ms. COM, and year level presentations.

----- DOC | CvSU creative, performing artists shine in 7th STRASUC Culture and Arts Fest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/24/cvsu-creative-performing-artists-shine-in-7th-strasuc-culture-and-arts-fest/ | 2023-10-24 -----
The best of Cavite State University (CvSU)'s creative and performing artists showcased their wit and talents in the 7th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges – Culture and Arts Festival (STRASUC – CAF), October 16-20, at Occidental Mindoro State College (OMSC) in San Jose, Occidental Mindoro.  

 With the theme “Pag-usahon para sa Sining: A Celebration of Multiculturalism,” this year's CAF delegation from CvSU capped fourth place overall with two golds, two silvers, and one bronze after competing with their Southern Tagalog counterparts in various events under the visual arts, musical arts, and performing arts categories; and the Festival King and Queen 2023. 

 Bringing home the gold medals for CvSU were Kian Joy Guarin in Pop Solo and Charles Cresino in Charcoal Rendering, both from the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT). 

 Meanwhile, CvSU Festival King Kian Damiel Velasco of CvSU Trece Martires City Campus and the Student Artisté Society were runners up in the Festival King and Queen 2023 and Short and Sweet Play, respectively. 

 CEIT's Jessie Binalla placed third in Pencil Drawing, while CvSU Silang Campus ranked fourth in Radio Drama. 

 Czarina Angelin Antonio and Russel Simon Roxas from CEIT, and Sofia Yesha Napoles from the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) secured fourth place in Vocal Duet and Kundiman, respectively.  

 Lastly, bagging the fifth place were CASkaseros from CAS in Live Band, Student Artisté Society in Contemporary Dance, and Desiree Ann Sta. Ana of CvSU Imus in instrument solo (violin).  

 Finishing on the podium are Batangas State University – The National Engineering University as this year's overall champion, followed by Southern Luzon State University and Palawan State University.  

 Other SUCs who participated in the 7th STRASUC – CAF include Laguna State Polytechnic University, Marinduque State College, Mindoro State University, OMSC, Romblon State University, University of Rizal System, University of the Philippines – Los Baños, and Western Philippines University.

----- DOC | Empowering Change: Highlights from the 8th GAD Research Conference | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/empowering-change-highlights-from-the-8th-gad-research-conference/ | 2023-10-23 -----
In bold stride towards advancing gender equality and inclusive societies, Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), held the 8 th GAD Research Conference with the theme “Embracing Community-Based Initiatives to Prevent Gender-Based Violence and Promote Inclusive Societies,” October 18-19, 2023, at Veranda, Hostel Tropicana, CvSU, Indang, Cavite. 

 

 The conference commenced with an inspiring opening and inspirational message delivered by Vice President for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac where he highlighted the importance of research in shaping a more inclusive and equitable society, and set the tone for two days of engaging discussions and knowledge-sharing. 

 On the first day, the morning session featured plenary talks that delved into crucial aspects of gender-based violence and inclusivity in research. 

 CvSU MOVE KATROPA President Mr. King David J. Agreda presented insights on “Gender-Based Violence in Research,” providing a thought-provoking examination of the challenges and opportunities in addressing this critical issue. 

 University of the Philippines (UP) Mindanao – School of Management Associate Professor Dr. Glory Dee Romo followed with a discussion on “Inclusivity in Research,” emphasizing the importance of diverse perspectives in the research process. 

 CvSU MOVE KATROPA President Mr. King David J. Agreda (left) discussing “Gender-Based Violence in Research”; while UP Mindanao Associate Professor Dr. Glory Dee Romo (right) discussing “Inclusivity in Research.” 
 In the afternoon, Mr. Agreda returned to explore “Using a Gender Lens in Research,” offering practical strategies for incorporating gender considerations into research methodologies. 

 Meanwhile, Knowledge Management Center Head of the Publication and Communication Division Dr. Alvin William A. Alvarez shared insights on “Writing to Get Published,” providing valuable tips on effectively communicating research findings and contributing to the academic discourse. 

 Knowledge Management Center Head of the Publication and Communication Division Dr. Alvin William A. Alvarez discussing “Writing to Get Published.” 
 The second day of the conference was dedicated to the presentation of complete research projects. Researchers from diverse disciplines shared their findings, contributing to a rich tapestry of knowledge on gender-based violence prevention and inclusive societies. 

 A special presentation from the study “The Impact of Parental Interchanged Role to the Family in Cavite” authored by Mr. Paulito V. Hilario, Ms. Armi Grace B. Desingaño, Ms. Mary Joyce E. Talamente, Ms. Mary Jane A. Amparo, Mr. John Christian Paolo M. Belen, and Ms. Jezreel C. Del Espiritu Santo was presented. Afterwards, a special citation was awarded to them for being a Gender-Responsive Research based on the Harmonized GAD Guidelines (HGDG) assessment tool of the Philippine Commission on Women (PCW). 

 Dr. Paulito V. Hilario presented their research titled “The Impact of Parental Interchanged Role to the Family in Cavite”; and the awarding of the certificate. 
 GADRC in-charge of Data Banking and Publication and Research Coordinator Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco presented the reactors: retired Professor VI Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) faculty member Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, and College of Education (CED) faculty researcher Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, after which, the participants were introduced. 

 Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, retired professor (left); Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, CAS Faculty Member (middle); and Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, CED Faculty Member (left) served as the panel of reactors/discussants. 
 The 10 presenters from the various campuses, colleges, and units of the 8 th research conference were given 15 minutes each to discuss their study, and an additional five minutes for the questions and suggestions of the reactors. 

 After the deliberation, the research study “Gender Analysis Through Gender Mainstreaming Strategy: An Android-Based GAD Primer Application for CvSU-CCC” by Mr. King David J. Agreda, Ms. Alma G. Fiesta, Mr. Castor Troy D. Ordaneza, Ms. Arienne L. Samartino, and Mr. Dave O. Villareal got the first place. 

 Meanwhile, “SOGIE and Perceptions About LGBTQ Workplace Climate of Science Teachers in Secondary Schools of Dasmariñas City, Cavite” by Mr. Jjohn Mark Louie R. Noel placed second. 

 “Cavite State University – Cavite City Campus GAD Database” by Mr. King David J. Agreda, Ms. Assunta Via A. Monogsong, Ms. Camille C. Donatos, and Mr. John Erwin S. Voluntad; and “Extent of Gender-Fair Language Use in Written Communications in Cavite State University: Implications for an SDG-Aligned University” by Mx. Kim C. Abarentos, Mr. Ohn Larrence P. Bustamante, Ms. Jonalyn B. Edad, Ms. Taylor Collins T. Narcelles, Ms. Samantha Nicole A. Olaso, Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, and Ms. Julie Ann Perey were awarded the third place. 

 FIRST PLACE – “Gender Analysis Through Gender Mainstreaming Strategy: An Android-Based GAD Primer Application for CvSU-CCC” written by Mr. King David J. Agreda, Ms. Alma G. Fiesta, Mr. Castor Troy D. Ordaneza, Ms. Arienne L. Samartino, and Mr. Dave O. Villareal. 
 SECOND PLACE – “SOGIE and Perceptions About LGBTQ Workplace Climate of Science Teachers in Secondary Schools of Dasmariñas City, Cavite” written by Mr. Jjohn Mark Louie R. Noel. 
 THIRD PLACE – “Cavite State University – Cavite City Campus GAD Database” written by Mr. King David J. Agreda, Ms. Assunta Via A. Monogsong, Ms. Camille C. Donatos, and Mr. John Erwin S. Voluntad and “Extent of Gender-Fair Language Use in Written Communications in Cavite State University: Implications for an SDG-Aligned University” written by Mx. Kim C. Abarentos, Mr. Ohn Larrence P. Bustamante, Ms. Jonalyn B. Edad, Ms. Taylor Collins T. Narcelles, Ms. Samantha Nicole A. Olaso, Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, and Ms. Julie Ann Perey. 
 As the conference ended, GADRC Research and Development Unit Head Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz delivered the closing message where she expressed gratitude for the active participation of researchers, emphasizing the significance of their contributions to advancing GAD initiatives. 

 The closing message encapsulated the spirit of collaboration, learning, and commitment that defined the two-day event moderated by Ms. Sioco. 

 GADRC Research and Development Unit Head Dr. Ma. Cynthia Rundina-Dela Cruz (left) delivering the closing message; and GADRC in-charge of Data Banking and Publication and Research Coordinator Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco served as moderator for the event.

----- DOC | Fil-Chinese Chambers of Commerce turns over school building to CvSU Imus Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/18/fil-chinese-chambers-of-commerce-turns-over-school-building-to-cvsu-imus-campus/ | 2023-10-18 -----
Officials, faculty members, students, and guests gathered for the signing of the deed of donation and actual turnover of the duly constructed school building from the Federation of Filipino-Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Inc. (FFCCCII) for Cavite State University (CvSU) Imus Campus, October 18.  

 Gracing the event are FFCCCII officials and Mr. Philip Lee Tiak Him who donated the building in memory of his mother, Madame Lao Lai Wing. 

 University officials led by President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, and Imus Campus Administrator Dr. Jenny Beb F. Espineli also awarded a plaque of appreciation and certification of recognition to the donors.  

 The building was constructed under the “Operation: Barrio Schools” project of the FFCCCII and the Cavite Filipino-Chinese Chamber of Commerce.  

 With the goal of supporting the country's education sector since 1961, the “Operation: Barrio Schools” school building construction program is made possible through donations from FFCCCII members and organizations, families, and individuals within the Filipino-Chinese community.

----- DOC | Cavite State U maintains ISO 9001:2015 certification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/18/cavite-state-u-maintains-iso-90012015-certification/ | 2023-10-18 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) maintains its ISO 9001:2015 certification following a surveillance audit of its Quality Management System (QMS) conducted on October 16-17. 

 During the two-day onsite audit, a team from certifying body SOCOTEC Certification Philippines, Inc. verified CvSU's compliance with QMS standards in areas of research and extension, planning and development, external and business affairs, academics, curriculum, administrative and support services (University Health Care Services, University Civil Security Services, and Physical Plant Services), internal audit, control of documented information, and management review. 

 The University's ISO 9001:2015 certification for its provision of admission and registration, management of learning (graduate and undergraduate programs), and research and extension services is valid until December 3, 2024.

----- DOC | CvSU produces vet licensure topnotcher, passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/17/october-2023-veterinarians-licensure-exam/ | 2023-10-17 -----
Dr. Trisha Mae Ramos Bonagua leads the roster of Cavite State University's (CvSU) new licensed veterinarians after placing seventh (81.90%) in the October 2023 Veterinarians Licensure Examination.   

 A total of 19 out of 69 CvSU examinees passed the licensure exam, making it the second top performing veterinary school in the country with 27.54% passing rate which is above the national passing percentage of 9.34%.   

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 92 out of 985 hurdled the exam given by the Board of Veterinary Medicine in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Rosales, Tacloban, and Tuguegarao.

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes exchange student teacher from Sebelas Maret University | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/11/cvsu-welcomes-exchange-student-teacher-from-sebelas-maret-university/ | 2023-10-11 -----
Cavite State University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, along with the Dean of the College of Education (CEd), Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, and other officials from CEd, welcomed exchange student teacher Ms. Dea Muthia Febry from Sebelas Maret University.  

 This is in line with the ongoing SEA-Teacher Project Batch 9 organized by the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO) which aims to facilitate cross-cultural learning and professional development for student teaching interns from various educational backgrounds.

----- DOC | Dr. Signo completes TrainIQA course for Southeast Asia | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/11/dr-signo-completes-trainiqa-course-for-southeast-asia/ | 2023-10-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Carmona Campus Administrator Dr. Cristina M. Signo completed the Training on Internal Quality Assurance (TrainIQA) in Southeast Asia (SEA) 2022-2023. 

 Dr. Signo is among the 30 participants from ASEAN universities who qualified in the TrainIQA ASEAN-Quality Assurance (QA) after going through a competitive selection process in 2022. 

 TrainIQA is a capacity building project of the German Academic Exchange Service/Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst, the German Reactors' Conference, and the University of Potsdam in cooperation with partner institutions the ASEAN Quality Assurance Network, the ASEAN University Network, and the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization Regional Centre for Higher Education and Development. 

 As part of the Dialogue on Innovative Higher Education Strategies program, TrainIQA aims to strengthen higher education management structures in developing countries. It also provides a venue for participants to improve their capacities in the field of QA, and promotes knowledge-sharing and lesson-learning among member HEIs and various stakeholders. 

 QA officers have implemented QA projects and completed a workshop in Potsdam, Germany since the December 2022 opening conference held in Bangkok, Thailand.  

 The third and last workshop for the ASEAN-QA program was held before the final conference themed “Developing Higher Education and Addressing External Challenges: The Role of University Management” in Hanoi, Vietnam on October 5-6, bringing together all trainees, university leaders, and the ASEAN and European project partners and experts. 

 The closing conference covered sessions and panel discussions on the trends and needs in QA in SEA, the key challenges and lessons learnt from the projects, artificial intelligence and higher education, and the challenges of curriculum development with multiple societal needs and external pressures.  

 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Public Affairs and Communications Office Director Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete joined Dr. Signo in the TrainIQA final conference in support of her output presentation, and to share the University's best practices, achievements, and innovations in quality assurance.

----- DOC | CvSU Silang posts 100% passing rate in CHRA assessment | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/09/cvsu-silang-posts-100-passing-rate-in-chra-assessment/ | 2023-10-09 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Silang Campus is recognized as one of the top performing schools with a 100% passing percentage in the September 2023 Certified Human Resource Associate (CHRA) Assessment Examination. 

 Administered by the Human Resource Educators' Association of the Philippines, Inc., the CHRA is an assessment examination/certification of the basic knowledge in the field of human resource management designed to assess the fundamental knowledge that a human resource practitioner must possess.  

 

 Source: https://www.facebook.com/HREAPNational/posts/pfbid031yoanV4UN7z4f831tVw195kVurctXzPEDDUtPTUiZCQj3zBwo54zfcYhBKdGzH3Bl

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates September 2023 CPA Licensure Examination Passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/09/cvsu-congratulates-september-2023-cpa-licensure-examination-passers/ | 2023-10-09 -----
Cavite State University posted a 48% passing rate in the September 2023 Licensure Examination for Certified Public Accountants. 

 A total of 2,740 out of 8,734 (31.37%)  examinees passed the CPA licensure examination given by the Board of Accountancy in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Calapan, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Palawan, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga. 

 See full results here: 

 https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/licensure-examination-september-2023-certified-public-accountants-results-released-four-4?fbclid=IwAR2iGGv_a6emr9INFB8vfgjjcQNvZ-CLeVZ81iorADST_aowcND0N31go5w

----- DOC | CvSU internationalization shines in ICON Awards 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/09/cvsu-internationalization-shines-in-icon-awards-2023/ | 2023-10-09 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU)'s pursuit of internationalization makes it one of the Philippine higher education institutions (PHEIs) recognized during the Internationalization Champions of Nation-Building and Sustainability (ICONS) Awards 2023, October 6, at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City.  

 On behalf of University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida of the International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office received the I CONS Awards 2023 – Ranking Award for CvSU in recognition of its commendable performance as a three-star rated PHEI by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World/Asia Rankings and Star Ratings. 

 In March 2023, CvSU entered the QS ratings and rankings which “provides universities across the world with bespoke comparative performance analysis according to metrics central to each institution's mission: teaching, research impact, reputational standing, student employability, and internationalization.” 

 The QS World/Asia Rankings and Star Ratings is one of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED)-recognized international league tables along with the Times Higher Education (THE) World, Asia, and Impact Rankings; and the World University Rankings for Innovation (WURI).  

 Organized by CHED – International Affairs Service, the ICONS Awards celebrates the addition of new internationally-recognized PHEIs, and highlights the high-impact initiatives of PHEIs towards sustainability, ASEAN awareness, and internationalization.  

 The awards also highlight the Internationalization Awards for exemplary PHEIs and leaders championing the internalization of Philippine higher education, the ASEANWave Webxhibition and Festival Awards for cultural exhibition and festival of creative and innovative works, and the recognition of PHEIs assessed and certified by the ASEAN University Network-Quality Assurance (AUN-QA) Network.

----- DOC | CvSU student tops provincial PH Statistics Quiz | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/03/cvsu-student-tops-provincial-ph-statistics-quiz/ | 2023-10-03 -----
A Cavite State University (CvSU) student emerged as champion in the 18th Provincial Elimination of the 27th Philippine Statistics Quiz, October 2, Trece Martires City, Cavite. 

 First year BS Medical Technology student Jannah Graziella O. Bayot will represent CvSU and Cavite Province along with the four runners-up in the Regional Elimination scheduled on November 10.  

 Also representing CvSU is BS Computer Science student Jade Aerron Micah L. Marges, with coaches Paul Vincent E. Botin, Jayson C. Savilla, and Jennifer R. Mojica.  

 This competition is in celebration of the 34th National Statistics Month with the theme “Accelerating Progress: Promoting Data and Statistics for Healthy Philippines.”

----- DOC | CvSU joins other HEIs in consortium for river conservation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/03/cvsu-joins-other-heis-in-consortium-for-river-conservation/ | 2023-10-03 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) joined other higher education institutions (HEIs) in the Philippines in the Weaving Collaborative Actions Toward Resilient, Renewable, and Regenerative Water Management (WAT3R) Consortium for the protection and conservation of the country's water resources. 

 Seven HEIs composed of Aklan State University (ASU), Bataan Peninsula State University (BPSU), Benguet State University (BSU), Cebu Normal University (CNU), CvSU, Mabalacat City College (MCC), and Rizal Technological University (RTU), formalized this collaboration during the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) of the Establishment of WAT3R Consortium on September 30 at the MCC. 

 Among the officials present were US Embassy to the Philippines Deputy Director on Public Engagement Ms. Pauline Anderson, CHED Deputy Executive Director IV Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla, ASU President Dr. Emily M. Arangote, BPSU President Dr. Ruby Santos-Matibag, BSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Samuel S. Poliden (representing President Dr. Felipe S. Comila), CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CNU President Dr. Daniel A. Ariaso Sr., MCC President Dr. Michelle Aguilar-Ong, and RTU President Dr. Ma. Eugenia M. Yangco.  

 As members, the educational institutions will be extending their resources and services for the protection of rivers in their respective communities and in support of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, particularly SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), SDG 14 (Life below water), and SDG 17 (Partnership for the goals). 

 The consortium also aims to share facilities for the conduct of scientific research, and develop programs to empower more universities and colleges to play an active role in water conservation. 

 After the MoU signing, Pres. Robles presided over the meeting with the presidents and officials of the member HEIs to discuss the way forward for the newly established consortium.

----- DOC | Sila, Ikaw, Ako, KASALI TAYO: Deepening Session on Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/sila-ikaw-ako-kasali-tayo-deepening-session-on-inclusive-community-based-disaster-risk-reduction-management/ | 2023-10-02 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU), through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted a two-day training workshop on Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management on September 27-28, 2023, aiming to establish certified ICBDRRM Community Trainers and official volunteers of the Center for Disaster Preparedness. 

 A series of 10-day training workshops were conducted on September 27 to October 1, 2022, November 16 to 18, 2022, and September 27 to 28, 2023, with 22 participants. Nine individuals successfully completed the workshops and obtained certification as Community Trainers for CvSU and the Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP) in Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management. 

 The training included discussions on the previous year's immersion experiences, with participants identifying successful aspects and areas for improvement. Topics covered included Adult Learning and Action Planning, emphasizing the importance of understanding community needs assessment and effective planning for disaster response. 

 The second day focused on Action Planning, where participants learned about tools such as Hazard and Resource Maps, Disaster Timeline/Seasonal Calendar, Early Warning System, and Rapid Damage Risk Assessment. The participants were divided into two (2) groups to strategize a three-day community immersion program in selected barangays in Cavite City, addressing logistics, registration, food arrangements, and training topics. 

 To conclude the two-day training workshop, Dr. Susan G. Tan delivered the closing remarks, stating that the three-day community immersion program in Cavite City would take place in October or November. Participants who completed the training were officially certified as ICBDRRM Community Trainers and recognized as volunteers of the Center for Disaster Preparedness. She further emphasized that Mayor Denver Chua of Cavite City had expressed his full support for the pilot training to be conducted in Cavite City. (JKRebutazo) 

 Pictures during the Action Planning 
 Awarding of Certificate to Resource Speakers. Ms. Jelyne F. Gealone (right), Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta (middle), and Ms. Jocelyn T. Samson (left). 
 Participants of two-day training workshop

----- DOC | Newly-elected CSG officers take oath | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/28/newly-elected-csg-officers-take-oath/ | 2023-09-28 -----
Newly-elected Central Student Government (CSG) officers of Cavite State University (CvSU) – Main Campus for Academic Year 2023-2024 took their oath, September 27, at the CvSU Boardroom. 

 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles led the oath-taking of the following new CSG officers: 

 President: 

 Tara Jehana Tamano 

 Vice-President: 

 Clyde Phil Fernandez 

 Senators: 

 Rochelle Dela Cruz 

 Nicolle Andrea Dela Cruz 

 Koryne Yesha Lacsamana 

 Kim Grace Banzuelo 

 Eiji Shinjo Andrada 

 Christian Laurence Casalme 

 Shaira Lebato 

 Dionei Esplana 

 Pearl Jam Paas 

 Ma. Divina Malabanan 

 Jerome Clark 

 Lee Angelo Padua 

 Also present at the ceremony were Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Office of the Student Affairs and Services Director Sharon Mojica-Isip and staff, Prof. Jason R. Maniacop, and Prof. Andy A. Dizon. 

 The event also provided a forum to discuss various issues including student stipend allowance, gender and development (GAD) rules, appropriate waste management practices, and other noteworthy initiatives for the Kabsuhenyos throughout the entire academic year.

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes Universitas Kristen Indonesia exchange student teachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/28/cvsu-welcomes-universitas-kristen-indonesia-exchange-student-teachers/ | 2023-09-28 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) welcomed Ms. Alifa Rahmah and Ms. Ersi Irma Anjelita Manu, exchange student teachers from Universitas Kristen Indonesia who are also taking part in the SEA Teacher Project or the Pre-Service Student Teacher Exchange in Southeast Asia. 

 The said project aims to provide an opportunity for pre-service student teachers from universities in Southeast Asia to have teaching experiences in schools in other countries in Southeast Asia. 

 The new exchange student teachers paid a courtesy visit to CvSU President Hernando D. Robles, together with College of Education (CEd) Dean Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office Director Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, department chairpersons and principals under CEd, and two other SEA Teacher Project participants from Universitas Halu Oleo.

----- DOC | CvSU, Tagaytay City host 2023 Philippine ROTC Games – Luzon leg | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/27/cvsu-tagaytay-city-host-2023-philippine-rotc-games-luzon-leg/ | 2023-09-27 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) and the Local Government Unit of Tagaytay hosted the Luzon Qualifying Leg of the Philippine ROTC Games (PRG) 2023, September 17-23, in Indang, Cavite. 

 With the theme “Tibay at Galing Pagyamanin, Suportahan, Palarong ROTC Natin,” this event seeks to promote nationalism, sports development, and the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program. 

 Cadet athletes from ROTC units of participating colleges and universities in the Cordillera Administrative Region, Region I, Region II, Region III, Region IV CALABARZON, Region IV MIMAROPA, and Region V battled it out in arnis, athletics, basketball, boxing, esports, kickboxing, volleyball, and the search for Ms. ROTC 2023.   

 The PRG is held in collaboration with the Office of Sen. Francis N. Tolentino, Department of National Defense (DND), Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Philippine Sports Commission (PSC), and Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP). 

 Among the officials who graced the Luzon leg are PRG proponent Sen. Tolentino, guests of honor Sen. Christopher Lawrence “Bong” T. Go and Sen. Ronald “Bato” M. dela Rosa, Philippine Olympic Committee President and Tagaytay City Mayor Abraham “Bambol” N. Tolentino, 2023 PRG National Organizing Committee Chairperson DND Asec. Henry A. Robinson Jr., DND Usec. Pablo M. Lorenzo, CHED Chairperson Prospero E. De Vera III, CHED Regional Director Dr. Virginia D. Akiate, PSC Chairperson Richard E. Bachmann, Cavite Vice Gov. Athena Bryana D. Tolentino, Tagaytay City Vice Mayor Agnes D. Tolentino, Indang Mayor Perfecto V. Fidel, CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Maj. Gen. Romulo A. Manuel Jr., Maj. Gen. Elpidio B. Talja, Brig. Gen. Cerilo C. Balaoro Jr., Maj. Gen. Roberto S. Capulong, Maj. Gen. Joel Alejandro S. Nacnac, Col. Ronald Jess S. Alcudia, and other AFP and university officials.    

 Meanwhile, Filipino boxers and 2020 Summer Olympic medalists Carlo C. Paalam, Nesthy A. Petecio, and Eumir Felix delos Santos Marcial led the ceremonial lighting of the torch. 

 The PRG National Capital Region Leg will be held on October 8 to 14, 2023, while the national championships is scheduled on October 22 to 27, 2023 in Marikina City.  

 The official results and other PRG updates may be accessed through the Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page: https://www.facebook.com/PHROTCGames/ 

  

 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page 
 Photo courtesy of Philippine ROTC Games Facebook Page

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new registered social workers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/26/cvsu-congratulates-new-registered-social-workers/ | 2023-09-26 -----
Cavite State University posted 81.48% overall passing rate in the September 2023 Licensure Examination for Social Workers. 

 A total of 3,878 out of 6,833 passed the licensure exam given by the Board for Social Workers in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Calapan, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Kidapawan, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pagadian, Palawan, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga.  

 Source: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/september-2023-licensure-examination-social-workers-results-released-three-3-working-days?fbclid=IwAR3QAaSR3V7kVrdZjDt1WGUBjw61oiyJhQkYNWvA_c35NHW_trPNdvywa6I

----- DOC | CSWDO – Cavite City expresses support to KASALI TAYO Extension Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/cswdo-cavite-city-expresses-support-to-kasali-tayo-extension-program/ | 2023-09-25 -----
As part of the extension program of the Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Center dubbed as KA balikat sa SA nayan at LI ngap sa mga TA ong nasa layla Y an ng Lipunan tungo sa paglag O (KASALI TAYO), Cavite City was selected to be the first recipient of the training on Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management (ICBDRRM). 

 GAD Resource Center Director Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, together with Cavite City Campus Administrator Prof. Ma. Cristina J. Baesa and CvSU – Cavite City Campus Faculty Member Mr. King David J. Agreda, paid a visit to Cavite City's City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) on September 25, 2023, to provide the latter with background information on the KASALI TAYO Extension Program, and to discuss plans for the training of trainers on ICBDRRM. 

 Dr. Tan emphasized that the activity's trainers are CDP-certified volunteers and from the marginalized sectors including persons with disability (PWDs), senior citizens, solo parents, and members of LGBTQIA++. 

 She said that the participants in the three-day program, suggested to be conducted in October 2023, must be Cavite City barangay residents who belong to marginalized sectors. 

 CSWDO Office committed to look for the available dates for the conduct of the activity, and to select the most susceptible from the 84 barangays in Cavite City. The initial receivers of the ICBDRRM training would be three barangays, each with at least 25 individuals from the marginalized sectors. 

 Afterwards, graduate trainers will join the Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP) volunteer pool where they will be responsible for conducting trainings and/or capacitating other barangays in Cavite City to establish their own community based DRRM teams in their respective areas. 

 To conclude the meeting, Ms. Arlene Ubayan said that they would provide for the participants from the three barangays, the venue for the three-day training, and food and transportation for the trainers. (JKRebutazo) 

 Group photo with CSWDO – Cavite City Staff

----- DOC | Understanding disabilities: GADRC Director shares expertise on disability awareness and sensitivity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/understanding-disabilities-gadrc-director-shares-expertise-on-disability-awareness-and-sensitivity/ | 2023-09-25 -----
The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Cavite conducted a two-day training for its personnel with the theme “ Friendship Beyond Gender and Listening through a Gender Lens and Seminar on Gender and Disability ,” September 21-22, at Quest Hotel in Tagaytay City, Cavite. 

 During the second day, CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center Director Dr. Susan G. Tan led a session on Disability Awareness and Sensitivity. A realization activity was conducted at the beginning of Dr. Tan's discussion wherein the participants were grouped into four, and were given 15 minutes to discuss the following questions: 

 
 What does the word disability mean to you? 

 What is your reaction when you see a person with a disability? 

 What personal experience do you have with disability, either with your own lived experience, within your family, or in your community? 

 
 The four groups shared positive experiences with deaf family members, emphasizing that they did not feel undervalued. They viewed disability as a limitation in activities, while others defined it as a physical or mental condition with varying severity. They also advocated for celebrating accomplishments of people with disabilities, focusing on support for their families rather than pitying them. 

 Dr. Tan discussed disability awareness, emphasizing understanding disability issues, effective interactions, and individual needs. She talked about the discrimination faced by persons with disabilities (PWDs), especially in health services. Globally, 10% of the population has a disability, with women having a higher rate. In the Philippines, 12% experience severe disability, 47% moderate disability, and 41% mild disability. 

 Furthermore, Dr. Tan highlighted the lack of inclusion of PWDs and senior citizens in disaster planning by municipalities. She emphasized the need for disability awareness and accessibility audits in public buildings to assess PWD-friendliness. She also addressed misconceptions about disabilities and gave advice on interacting with PWDs, including direct communication, waiting for assistance, and treating them as equals. 

 Dr. Tan also mentioned the CSC MC 07 s. 2014 which encourages government agencies to hire PWDs in compliance with Republic Act No. 7277, reserving at least one percent of positions for PWDs. She concluded by emphasizing the primary goal of GAD trainings: justice and equality for all individuals in society. ( JKRebutazo ) 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan during the discussion 
 Pictures of the participants during the activity 
 Awarding of certificate to Dr. Susan G. Tan (left) with PSA-Cavite Chief Statistical Specialist Ms. Lucia Iraida A. Soneja (right)

----- DOC | Dr. Susan G. Tan Enlightens the Department of Education on GAD-Related Laws (R.A. 9710 and R.A 11313) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/dr-susan-g-tan-enlightens-the-department-of-education-on-gad-related-laws-r-a-9710-and-r-a-11313/ | 2023-09-25 -----
The Schools Division Office of Cavite Province held a Division Gender and Development Seminar on September 21, 2023, with the theme, “ Empowering Equality and Fostering Gender and Development Sensitivity in DepEd. ” The event drew 115 female and 49 male participants, including senior citizens, solo parents, women of reproductive age for the morning session, and members of LGBTQIA+, PWDs, and men from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM at Bulwagang Tanglaw, SDO Cavite Province. 

 

 Ms. Rosemarie D. Torres, the Schools Division Superintendent, delivered an inspirational message to the participants. She emphasized that the seminar aimed to impart knowledge on leading a healthy lifestyle, refreshing participants' understanding of retirement planning, and acquainting them with two significant laws: The Magna Carta of Women and the Safe Spaces Act. Ms. Torres expressed her gratitude to the seminar's resource speakers, believing that their expertise would greatly benefit the participants. 

 

 
 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center, discussed the Magna Carta of Women. Dr. Tan highlighted that the Philippines was the first Asian country to grant women the right to vote. She explained that the Magna Carta of Women is a localized version of CEDAW (Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women) and provides women with various rights, including protection from violence, disaster relief, civil, political, and economic rights, equal marriage rights, comprehensive healthcare services, special leave benefits, protection for girl children, and the right to education and training. 

 

 In the afternoon session, Dr. Tan discussed Republic Act No. 11313, commonly known as the Safe Spaces Act. She explained that this law was formulated in response to alarming statistics indicating that 88% of women aged 18 to 24 experience street harassment, including catcalling, stalking, inappropriate touching, and gestures. The majority of these incidents (about 70%) involve harassment by strangers, with 58% occurring in public spaces such as streets, major roads, and small alleys. These incidents are most prevalent during daylight hours, from 6 AM to 6 PM. Dr. Tan highlighted the distinction between this act and RA 7877, the Anti-sexual Harassment Act, which primarily addresses issues in workplaces, educational institutions, and training contexts, with enforcement responsibilities resting with higher authorities.   (JKRebutazo) 

 

 
 
 Participants of the morning session 
 Participants of the afternoon session 
 Awarding of Certificate to Dr. Susan G. Tan

----- DOC | CvSU Dasmariñas Learning Center inaugurated | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/20/cvsu-dasmarinas-learning-center-inaugurated/ | 2023-09-20 -----
Quality education has become more accessible to Dasmarineños following the inauguration of the Cavite State University (CvSU) Learning Center – City of Dasmariñas Campus, September 18. 

 The establishment of the learning center located in Barangay Burol Main was made possible through a Memorandum of Agreement between the CvSU and the city government in February this year, with the goal to make quality education more accessible to city residents. 

 University and city government officials and employees led by CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Dasmariñas City Mayor Jennifer Austria-Barzaga, CvSU Learning Center Administrator Dr. Gemma S. Legaspi, Dasmariñas City Vice Mayor Raul Rex D. Mangubat, and Board Member Francisco “Kiko” A. Barzaga graced the ceremony as the learning center began the admission of new students for the first semester of A.Y. 2023-2024. 

 In his message, Dr. Robles assured that CvSU will always be a partner in building the future of the people of Dasmariñas and realizing their dream to finish their college degree. 

 For her part, Mayor Barzaga highlighted the city government's efforts to ensure that their constituents will have access to quality education, expressing hopes that these initiatives will be strengthened through their partnership with CvSU. 

 Meanwhile, Dr. Legaspi shared that the learning center received more than 5,000 admission requests. However, they can only accommodate 360 students in its initial year of operation. 

 The learning center offers the following courses beginning this academic year: Bachelor of Science (BS) in Accountancy, BS in Business Management (major in Operations Management/Marketing/Financial Management), BS in Criminology, Bachelor of Elementary Education, and Bachelor of Secondary Education (major in English/Science/Math). 

 

 CvSU and City Government of Dasmariñas officials during the blessing and inauguration of the learning center

----- DOC | August 2023 Criminology Licensure Examination Passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/19/august-2023-criminology-licensure-examination-passers/ | 2023-09-19 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its newly licensed Criminologists! 

 CvSU posted a passing rate of 86.67% (13/15 takers) in the August 2023 Licensure Examination for Criminologists given by the Board of Criminology in 31 testing centers in the country. 

 Source: https://www.prc.gov.ph/article/august-2023-licensure-examination-criminologists-results-released-fourteen-14-working-days?fbclid=IwAR17m_-gVSRLzH_ceGlHUG2r0e7-ymGA_NDxB3KIpJmI53h8qyake5X9r3Y

----- DOC | MOA Signing between Cavite State University – College of Medicine and Local Government Unit – RHU Indang | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/19/moa-signing-between-cavite-state-university-college-of-medicine-and-local-government-unit-rhu-indang/ | 2023-09-19 -----
Aiming to improve the health status of nearby communities of the university, the Cavite State University (CvSU) – College of Medicine (COM) and the Local Government Unit of Indang inked a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) on community health program, September 18. 

 The said partnership between CvSU-COM and LGU Indang Rural Health Unit seeks to formulate and implement community focused health care programs, services, processes and systems; research and development activities; and other educational exchanges of mutual interest beneficial to both institutions.  

 Also as part of the agreement, CvSU-COM and LGU Indang will collaborate with other stakeholders and beneficiaries during the planning and implementation of the projects. Present during the MOA signing are University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU COM Dean Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Indang Municipal Mayor Perfecto V. Fidel, Indang Municipal Health Officer Dr. Rosa D. Alegre, and Indang Rural Health Physician Dr. Rommel Vicedo.  

 Other University officials present were COM faculty members Dr. Sheila Arelli G. Safra, Dr. Gerald Natanauan, Dr. Abigail Rodriguez, Dr. Bethlehem Mula-Natanauan, Dr. Roderick A. Nomorosa, and COM Staff Ms. Marilou R. Jolito.

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes exchange student teachers from Universitas Halu Oleo | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/19/cvsu-welcomes-exchange-student-teachers-from-universitas-halu-oleo/ | 2023-09-19 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) welcomed exchange student teachers from Universitas Halu Oleo (UHO) Indonesia: Ms. Widhi Mulya Nurdin and Mr. Ahmad Fauzy Al Qadri.   

 CvSU College of Education Department Chairpersons Dr. Katherine D. Peren, Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar, Prof. Julie S. Guevara, Dr. Janelle P. Mendoza, and CvSU Laboratory Science High School Principal Mr. Rufriel S. Mesa warmly received Ms. Nurdin and Mr. Qadri who are taking part in the SEA-Teacher Student Teacher Exchange Program in Southeast Asia Batch 9th.

----- DOC | Strategizing for Equality: Highlights from the 2024 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/strategizing-for-equality-highlights-from-the-2024-gad-planning-and-budgeting-workshop/ | 2023-09-18 -----
To strengthen its commitment to gender equality and development, Cavite State University (CvSU), through its Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted the 2024 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop on September 14, 2023, at the Veranda, Hostel Tropicana. 

 The workshop provided a platform for strategic planning and collaborative discussions among GAD coordinators and alternates of different campus/college/units. 

 Planning Office Director Mr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes emphasized the critical role of GAD initiatives in fostering inclusivity and addressing gender disparities within the university community. 

 Meanwhile, Extension Services Head of Training and Courseware Development Division Ms. Raecel A. Estebat provided a comprehensive orientation on the Guidelines for the Preparation of the GAD Plan and Budget, emphasizing the need to integrate gender considerations into the overall planning process. She encouraged GAD coordinators and alternates to regularly review and revise their GAD plans and budgets, adapting to changing circumstances and evolving insights into gender issues. 

 Participants engaged in a hands-on workshop where they crafted their respective Campus/College/Unit GAD Plan and Budgets, encouraging collaboration, creativity, and a tailored approach to addressing gender-specific needs within diverse units of the university. 

 Financial Management Services Office Director Ms. Asuncion R. Reyes expressed gratitude for the active participation and collective effort invested in the workshop, emphasizing the importance of integrating gender perspectives into budgeting processes and the commitment to translating plans into impactful actions. 

 The BRITE Center and College of Medicine consulting Ms. Estebat regarding their GAD Plan and Budget for their Office. 
 GAD Coordinators from CvSU CCAT Campus, CvSU Naic Campus, CvSU Cavite City Campus, and Alumni Affairs presented their GAD Plan and Budget. 
 The participants of the 2024 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop.

----- DOC | CvSU holds 112th commencement exercises | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/12/cvsu-holds-112th-commencement-exercises/ | 2023-09-12 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) held its 112th commencement exercises at the university International Convention Center and other venues in Cavite, August 22 – September 7. 

 CvSU President Hernando D. Robles led the conferment of a total of 11,357 graduates from university colleges and satellite campuses for SY 2022-2023.   

 Honorable guest commencement speakers also addressed the graduates of each cluster: Ceva Animal Health (Philippines) Inc. president and country manager Dr. Bryan M. Retales and Sen. Pia S. Cayetano (for Graduate School and Open Learning College; College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources); SEARCA Director and NAST Academician Dr. Glenn B. Gregorio and Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Executive Director Atty. Cinderella Filipina S. Benitez-Jaro (for College of Arts and Sciences); Department of Budget and Management Sec. Amenah F. Pangandaman, and House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Rep. Camille A. Villar (for College of Economics, Management and Development Studies); and Sen. Sherwin “Win” T. Gatchalian and Sen. Francis Joseph “Chiz” G. Escudero (for College of Education). 

 Also providing their commencement speeches were CHED Region IV Director Dr. Virginia Akiate (for Silang Campus); Sen. Francis N. Tolentino (for College of Engineering and Information Technology); Sen. Imee R. Marcos (for College of Criminal Justice and College of Nursing); Cavite 8th District Rep. Aniela Bianca D. Tolentino (for College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation; Naic Campus); Cavite 1st District Rep. Ramon Jolo Revilla III (for Cavite City Campus); Trece Martires City Mayor Gemma B. Lubigan and Tanza Vice Mayor Archangelo “SM” B. Matro (for Trece Martires City and Tanza campuses); and Imus City Mayor Alex L. Advincula and Vice Mayor Homer T. Saquilayan (for Imus Campus). 

 Lastly, Sen. Christopher Lawrence “Bong” T. Go; Cavite 6th District Rep. Antonio A. Ferrer; Carmona Mayor Dr. Dahlia A. Loyola; and Sen. Ramon Bong Revilla Jr. and Cavite 2nd District Rep. Lani Mercado-Revilla graced the commencement exercises for the CvSU Rosario, General Trias, Carmona, and Bacoor campuses, respectively.

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates new registered electrical engineers, master electricians | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/11/cvsu-congratulates-new-registered-electrical-engineers-master-electricians/ | 2023-09-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) congratulates its new electrical engineers and master electricians following the release of the results of the September 2023 licensure examinations.  

 Examinees from CvSU Main campus posted 90.91% and 83.33%, while CvSU CCAT (Rosario) recorded 53.33% and 80.00% passing rates for the electrical engineers and master electricians licensure exams, respectively. 

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, 1,218 out of 3,945 (30.87%) passed the registered electrical engineers licensure examination, and 800 out 1,40 (53.69%) hurdled the registered master electricians licensure examination given by the Board of Electrical Engineering in NCR, Baguio, Butuan, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Oriental Mindoro, Pagadian, Palawan, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zambonga in September 2023.

----- DOC | Gender and Nutrition: Equipping Women to Improve Nutrition | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/gender-and-nutrition-equipping-women-to-improve-nutrition/ | 2023-09-07 -----
In a rigorous effort to bridge the gap between gender and nutrition, the University's Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Center conducted an activity entitled “Webinar on Gender and Nutrition: Equipping Women to Improve Nutrition” on September 7, 2023, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live, to equip women with the knowledge and tools to play a pivotal role in improving nutrition, unraveling the intricate connections between gender dynamics and food security. 

 

 On behalf of Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel, Jr., Dean, College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR), Ms. Abigail Pegollo-Daria, Staff, CAFENR set the tone with a compelling opening message in which she emphasized the critical role of women in the realm of nutrition and agriculture, highlighting the significance of their involvement for sustainable food systems. 

 

 Assoc. Prof. Glory Dee A. Romo, PhD, from the School of Management, University of the Philippines (UP) Mindanao, highlighted the intricate ways in which gender roles, norms, and inequalities impact access to and utilization of food resources. She emphasized the need for a comprehensive and intersectional approach that considers social, economic, and cultural factors influencing access, decision-making, and utilization of food resources. 

 

 

 

 Dr. Pacilina Estrella-Barotil, a Fellow in Family Medicine with a Master's in Nutritional Medicine, College of Medicine, discussed how gender affects nutrition, highlighting how societal norms and gender roles influence dietary patterns, nutritional needs, and overall health outcomes. 

 

 

 

 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean, College of Medicine, concluded the webinar by emphasizing the importance of integrating gender-sensitive approaches into nutritional interventions for comprehensive and sustainable outcomes. Ensuring a dynamic exchange of ideas and fostering active engagement, the activity was moderated by Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Carmona Campus and CVSU MOVE KATROPA Vice President. 

 

 
 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean College of Medicine 
 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Carmona Campus and MOVE KATROPA Vice President

----- DOC | Orientation Program 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/06/orientation-program-2023/ | 2023-09-06 -----
We are inviting our incoming first-year students, transferees, second coursers, and parents to the Orientation Program! 

 Please take note of the following important dates: 

 • September 11, 12, & 15, 2023 

 Venue: International Convention Center (ICON) 

 𝙉𝙊𝙏𝙀: 𝗦𝗲𝗽𝘁𝗲𝗺𝗯𝗲𝗿 𝟭𝟯 𝘀𝗰𝗵𝗲𝗱𝘂𝗹𝗲 𝗵𝗮𝘀 𝗯𝗲𝗲𝗻 𝗺𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗱 𝘁𝗼 𝗦𝗲𝗽𝘁𝗲𝗺𝗯𝗲𝗿 𝟭𝟭, 𝟮𝟬𝟮𝟯 (𝘀𝗮𝗺𝗲 𝘃𝗲𝗻𝘂𝗲 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝘁𝗶𝗺𝗲) 

 • September 14, 2023 

 Venue: S.M. Rolle Hall 

 Time slots: 

 • 8:00 am -10:00 am 

 • 11:00 am – 1:00 pm 

 • 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm 

 Be there! As we welcome you to your New Home! 𝙏𝙝𝙚 𝙃𝙤𝙢𝙚 𝙤𝙛 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝘽𝙚𝙨𝙩 𝙖𝙣𝙙 𝙩𝙝𝙚 𝘽𝙧𝙞𝙜𝙝𝙩𝙚𝙨𝙩! CvSU leads forever!

----- DOC | Celebrating Individuality: Embracing LGBTQIA++ Expression during the CvSU 112th Commencement Exercises | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/09/01/celebrating-individuality-embracing-lgbtqia-expression-during-the-cvsu-112th-commencement-exercises/ | 2023-09-01 -----
In a heartening move towards inclusivity and respect for individuality, Cavite State University (CvSU) has taken a progressive stance by allowing LGBTQIA++ students to wear whatever aligns with their gender identity during the University's 112th Commencement Exercises.  

 This groundbreaking decision of CvSU is more than simply a symbolic gesture, but also a powerful affirmation of the institution's commitment to fostering an environment in which every student's uniqueness is respected and appreciated. Graduates cross the stage not just as students, but also as advocates for a more inclusive and equitable future. 

 During the CvSU 112th Commencement Exercises 
  

 During the CvSU 112th Commencement Exercises

----- DOC | Empowering Health: Nurturing Awareness in the National Breastfeeding Awareness Month Webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/empowering-health-nurturing-awareness-in-the-national-breastfeeding-awareness-month-webinar/ | 2023-08-31 -----
In a meaningful celebration of the National Breastfeeding Awareness Month, the Gender and Development Resource Center organized a transformative webinar on August 31, 2023. The event, which took place via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live, brought together experts, educators, and the community to discuss the importance of breastfeeding and its legal and health implications. 

 Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of the College of Nursing, highlighted the profound impact of breastfeeding on maternal and infant health, emphasizing the need for a culture that champions the well-being of mothers and newborns. 

 

 Ms. Charmaine Kelly Posadas-Mesina, Program Coordinator of Midwifery, College of Medicine, discussed the legal framework supporting breastfeeding, highlighting the distinctions of RA 10028, the Expanded Breastfeeding Promotion Act of 2009, and Executive Order No. 51, the National Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes, Breastmilk Supplements, and other Related Products. She emphasized the importance of protecting infants' health and nutrition by promoting breastfeeding as the optimal and natural way to nourish infants. 

 

 Dr. Elaine Marie O. Madamba-Reyes, a Fellow at the Philippine Pediatric Society, College of Medicine, highlighted the critical connection between breastfeeding and nutrition, emphasizing breastfeeding as a holistic and natural approach to infant nutrition, providing a multitude of benefits for both the baby and the mother. 

 

 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean of the College of Medicine, expressed gratitude for the collaborative effort to raise awareness and commitment to supporting breastfeeding as a cornerstone of maternal and child health. Dr. Trisha C. Crisostomo, GAD Coordinator, College of Medicine moderated this webinar. 

 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean College of Medicine 
 Dr. Trisha C. Crisostomo, GAD Coordinator, College of Medicine 
 

 Participants of the Webinar on the Observance of the National Breastfeeding Awareness Month.

----- DOC | Training Course on Practical Bioinformatics Skills for Plant and Animal Whole Genome Sequencing Data | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/29/training-course-on-practical-bioinformatics-skills-for-plant-and-animal-whole-genome-sequencing-data/ | 2023-08-29 -----
Dr. Lloyd O. Balinado and Ms. Jonah Micah A. Lagua of the Department of Biological Sciences attended the Training Course on Practical Bioinformatics Skills for Plant and Animal Whole Genome Sequencing Data at the Center for Agricultural Biotechnology at Kasetsart University Kamphaeng Saen Campus in Thailand, August 28 – September 1. 

 This undertaking is under the Commission on Higher Education-funded Leveling-Up Philippine Higher Education Institutions in Agriculture, Fisheries, and Natural Resources (LevelUPHEI AFAR) project of the Southeast Asian Regional Center for Graduate Study and Research in Agriculture (SEARCA).

----- DOC | Training on disaster preparedness on fire drill for IAPWDI members | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/training-on-disaster-preparedness-on-fire-drill-for-iapwdi-members/ | 2023-08-24 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) sponsored a Training on Disaster Preparedness on Fire Drill for the members of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) on August 24, at the CvSU-GADRC Babaylan Training Room in Indang, Cavite. 

 
 IAPWDI President Mr. Florian H. de Borja delivered the welcome message where he expressed his hope that everyone would gain valuable insights from the training, particularly in the effective usage of fire extinguishers. 

 

 College of Criminal Justice faculty member Mr. Marco Victor Mendoza discussed Fire Safety for Person with Disability, with some strategies for minimizing the risk of fire in various scenarios. He also tackled fire prevention methods and preparedness tailored to different types of disabilities. 

 

 Mr. Mendoza emphasized the importance of establishing a clear evacuation plan within one's residence and practicing the procedures in the event of a fire. He highlighted the necessity for all family members to be actively involved in the plan's creation and execution. Furthermore, he stressed that regular reviews and updates to the plan should be carried out in response to any changes in the household. 

 Moreover, Mr. Mendoza demonstrated to the participants the emergency security transfer techniques such as the piggy back technique, the firefighter's lift, the cradle carry, the fore and aft carry, blanket drag, and chair lift. Additionally, he provided a step-by-step demonstration on how to properly use a fire extinguisher. He also advised the participants not to panic in the presence of fire, but to instead follow the simple process: pull the pin, aim at the fire's base, squeeze the lever, and sweep the extinguisher side to side. 

 

 
 Pictures during the demonstration of some emergency security transfer techniques. 

 
 Pictures during the fire drill or using of fire extinguisher. 

 
 Awarding of the certificate to Mr. Marco Victor Mendoza.

----- DOC | Central Bicol State University of Agriculture benchmarks CvSU GADRC's best practices | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/03/central-bicol-state-university-of-agriculture-benchmarks-cvsu-gadrcs-best-practices/ | 2023-08-23 -----
The Central Bicol State University of Agriculture (CBSUA) Gender and Development (GAD) Center conducted a benchmarking activity on August 23, 2023, to know and understand the best practices of the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC). 

 CBSUA staff, headed by Dr. Glenn E. Redicilla, CBSUA GAD Center Director, and other GAD focal persons, coordinators, deans, and core group members from CBSUA satellite campuses (Pasacao, Calabanga, and Sipocot), were welcomed by GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan. 

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-charge of Data Banking and Publication, highlighted the best GAD practices using the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework's four entry points (policy, people, enabling mechanisms, and programs, activities, and projects). She emphasized that the GADRC's four-time recognition was made possible through the top management's persistent and unwavering support for the center's efforts to integrate GAD. 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, addressed all delegates' questions, such as on policies regarding LGBTQ++ students' uniforms and haircuts, the appointment of GAD coordinators/GAD alternates in every office/unit/campus/student organizations, and guidelines for incorporating GAD concepts into course syllabuses. (JKRebutazo and MCPSioco) 

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco discussing the university's best GAD practices 
 During the open forum, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat answered delegates' questions. 
 Dr. Glenn E. Redecilla, GAD Director of CBSUA (left), presenting Dr. Susan G. Tan (right) with a certificate of appreciation. 
 The delegates from CBSUA visited the Tulay ng Karunungan in Agri – Eco Tourism Park.

----- DOC | CvSU appointed as regional center for implementation of DBM-CHED circular on faculty reclassification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/22/cvsu-appointed-as-regional-center-for-implementation-of-dbm-ched-circular-on-faculty-reclassification/ | 2023-08-22 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is appointed to serve as the Regional Center (RC) for the implementation of the first cycle of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) – Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Joint Circular (JC) No. 3, s. 2022 for all the State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) in Region IV. 

 Pursuant to CHED Special Order No. 51, s. 2023, CvSU will serve as the regional center for the implementation of the joint circular which provides updated and revised policies and guidelines for the reclassification of faculty positions in SUCs. 

 The JC also aims to serve as a basis for policy decisions for faculty development in SUCs; and motivate a faculty to upgrade his/her rank and compensation by improving his/her academic qualifications, achievements, and performance. 

 Designated RCs shall serve as temporary repository of the hard copies of application documents of the faculty with Instructor I to Associate Professor V, and College or University Professor ranks. RCs will also be the venue for the in-person validation activities of the Regional Evaluation Committee and the Certification Committee.

----- DOC | Making the Right Real: Training on Accessibility Compliance and Audits | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/making-the-right-real-training-on-accessibility-compliance-and-audits/ | 2023-08-21 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a two-day training at Cavite State University on August 16-17, 2023, to assess the university's compliance with the Accessibility Law. The training was attended by personnel from the university's Planning and Development Office, Physical Plant Services and Architecture and Civil Engineering faculty members of the College of Engineering and Information Technology.  This training aimed to provide the participants a formal understanding of legal and ethical obligations related to university accessibility. 

 

 The opening message was delivered by Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC, who emphasized the importance of accessibility principles and the removal of barriers for people with disabilities. 

 

 In the morning session, Ar. Don de Vera, Chairperson, Makati Disability Inclusive Business Service Cooperative (MDIBSC), discussed the implementation of Batas Pambansa Bilang 344, the rights of people with disabilities, and the five essential minimum accessibility standards specified in the law which include requirements for ramps, parking, signage, toilets, and doors. 

 
 In the afternoon, participants were divided into five groups to conduct accessibility audits in various university buildings wherein participants must identify accessibility challenges and shall recommend architectural improvements. Prior to the audits, Ar. Don de Vera provided instruction on wheelchair usage and demonstrated various wheelchair strategies. 

 
 Group 1, evaluated the Office of the Students and Services (OSAS). 

 Group 2 assessed the Administration Building 

 Group 3 examined the Agri-Eco Tourism Park. 

 Groups 4 and 5 focused on the university sidewalks. 

 
 

 On the second day, Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator and faculty member at CvSU Cavite City Campus, discussed the integration of Harmonized Gender and Development (GAD) Guidelines in infrastructure. Participants learnt the value of adding gender analysis into development plans and assessed projects using the GAD Generic Checklist for Infrastructure. They also worked on adapting their project ideas to be more gender-responsive. 

 

 
 Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Planning and Development, delivered the closing remarks, commending GADRC for conducting the program and acknowledging the participants for their abilities in developing infrastructure projects and managing facilities. She noted that the majority of the university's facilities are inaccessible, but expressed optimism that future infrastructure developments will be more inclusive and gender-responsive. She encouraged the participants to use their newfound knowledge to help the institution become more gender-responsive and inclusive in the future. (JKRebutazo and MCPSioco) 

 

 
 Pictures during the Accessibility Audit in Office of the Student Affairs and Services 
 Pictures during the Accessibility Audit in Administration Building 
 Pictures during the Accessibility Audit in Agri-Eco Tourism Park 
 Pictures during the Accessibility Audit in sidewalks inside the University 

 

 Participants of the two-day training

----- DOC | 4 CvSU programs receive AACCUP Level III re-accreditation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/17/4-cvsu-programs-receive-aaccup-level-iii-re-accreditation/ | 2023-08-17 -----
Four academic programs of Cavite State University received Level III re-accreditation status from the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP). 

 Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies, Bachelor of Arts in Political Sciences, Bachelor of Science in Criminology, and Master of Science in Biology obtained Level III re-accreditation following the Level III Phase 2 accreditation conducted on March 27-29. 

 The accreditation for the said academic programs is valid from April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2027.

----- DOC | CvSU alumni among top psychometricians exam passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/10/cvsu-alumni-among-top-psychometricians-exam-passers/ | 2023-08-10 -----
Two Cavite State University (CvSU) graduates are among the top 10 examinees of the August 2023 Psychometricians Licensure Examination (PLE). 

 Kate Anne Liezel Patam Nares ranked eighth with 87.60 percent rating, while Glizelle Nicole Kaye Lacaba Calderon placed 10th with a score of 87.20 percent. 

 Overall, 160 out of 199 examinees from the CvSU Main Campus, Bacoor City Campus, General Trias Campus, Imus Campus, Silang Campus, and Trece Martires Campus passed the PLE held on August 1-2.  

 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, a total of 6,133 out of 8,370 examinees passed the PLE given by the Board of Psychology in the National Capital Region, Baguio, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Iloilo, Koronadal, Legazpi, Lucena, Pampanga, Rosales, Tacloban, Tuguegarao, and Zamboanga.

----- DOC | GAD advocates for a gender-responsive presentation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/03/gad-advocates-for-a-gender-responsive-presentation/ | 2023-08-03 -----
To sharpen the training skills and core competencies of Gender and Development (GAD) coordinators/ alternates and officers, and members of Cavite State University (CvSU) MOVE KATROPA, and to better comprehend, strategize, organize, and deliver gender equality and gender mainstreaming training, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a two-day Workshop on Gender-Responsive Presentation on August 2-3, 2023, at the Babaylan Training Room, GAD Resource Center. 

 To formally start the workshop, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, welcomed the participants to the workshop on behalf of University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CEO VI. She emphasized the importance of effective gender-responsive oral communication and PowerPoint presentation preparation. 

 Ms. Hazelyn H. Dela Cruz, CvSU Silang Campus GAD Coordinator, discussed the workshop's objectives, program flow, and house rules. Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, GADRC Training Coordinator, presented a video of the Benchmarking and Training of Trainers (TOT) on GAD held in Laguna on July 11-14, 2023. 

 Dr. Racquel G. Agustin, a faculty member from the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS), discussed the principles of effective communication, emphasizing the importance of accountability and responsibility. She tackled the advantages of communication, such as minimizing conflict, establishing bonds, and building strong relationships, while also highlighting the disadvantages such as increased risk of negative outcomes, stress, and strained relationships. Dr. Agustin also introduced the GAD-CVSU way of communication, which involves getting to the point, considering the audience, double-checking for accuracy, being concise, considering both verbal and non-verbal cues, speaking confidently, and aiming to understand the message as the main goal. 

  

 Dr. Agustin while discussing the principles of effective communication. 
  

 In the afternoon, groups 1 and 3 from the previous TOT on GAD presented their assigned topics Gender-Fair Language (GFL) and Gender Sensitivity Orientation (GSO), respectively. Dr. Agustin commended Mr. Alfie Carl A. Battung, GAD Alternate, for his impressive presentation and vocal projection. He also lauded everyone for their successful presentations, emphasizing that speech anxiety and apprehension are natural but the participants presented their topics well, with several receiving good marks. 

 Mr. Battung discussing Gender Fair Language 
 During the second day of the workshop, Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza, College of Education (CED) GAD Coordinator, delivered a summary of the discussions from day 1 and shared what he learned from Dr. Agustin's presentation. 

 Dr. Bernard S. Feranil, a faculty member of CAS, discussed effective oral communication, misconceptions, and errors in technical presentations. He emphasized the importance of strengthening presentation muscles and overcoming speech anxiety. Dr. Feranil advised how to properly start and end presentations, as well as the proper delivery style. He stressed that the speaker should be the focal point, so they must prepare and practice their presentation style. He also highlighted the three forms of oral presentations: purpose-based, delivery-based, and occasion-based. 

 Dr. Feranil discussing effective oral communication 
 In the afternoon, group 2 of the last TOT on GAD demonstrated the importance of VAW laws, including Anti-Sexual Harassment (RA 7877), the “Bawal ang Bastos” Law (RA 11313), and Violence Against Women and their Children (RA 9262). Dr. Feranil commended Mr. Marc Darrel P. Alcazar, College of Criminal Justice GAD Coordinator, and Ms. Veronica L. De Villa, University Library GAD Coordinator, for their excellent presentations, highlighting their convincing and knowledgeable presentations. He also lauded Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, GADRC's In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication, for her excellent rhetorical presentation technique. 

 

 Mr. Alcazar and Ms. De Villa discussing VAW laws 
 To wrap up the workshop, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC's In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, congratulated everyone for completing the workshop and mentioned several potential trainers for mainstreaming gender and development. Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Alternate, moderated the two-day activity attended by 13 female and 18 male CvSU personnel. (MCPSioco) 

  

 

 The awarding of certificates to the highly esteemed speakers 
 Day 1 of the Workshop on Gender-Responsive Presentation 
 Day 2 of the Workshop on the Gender-Responsive Presentation

----- DOC | Ceremonial MOU and MOA signing for OJT between Cavite State University and Camarines Norte State College. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/01/ceremonial-mou-and-moa-signing-for-ojt-between-cavite-state-university-and-camarines-norte-state-college/ | 2023-08-01 -----
Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding and Memorandum of Agreement signing for OJT between Cavite State University and Camarines Norte State College. 

 This notable event signifies powerful collaboration which the parties will be sharing progress, innovation and opportunities. 

 The statement of purpose was stated by the Director of International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida. The two institutions agreed upon programs of exchange of students, exchange of faculty and researchers, exchange of academic information and publications, joint research activities, joint organizers of international research and publications, and other exchanges of academic and cultural nature.  

 The signing was led by our University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles and the Camarines Norte State College President, Dr. Marlo M. Dela Cruz, PECE. 

 Camarines Norte State College officials who graced the ceremony were Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Dolores C. Volante; Director for Public Information and Community Relations Office; Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, Dr. Jocelyn E. Trinidad; and Chairperson, Department of Biology, Mr. Patrick O. Cabrejas. 

 Other University officials present were the Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro; Vice President for Research and Extensions, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac; Vice President for Planning and Development, Dr. Mary Jane Tepora; Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office, Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete; Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, Dr. Bettina Joyce Ilagan; Chairperson, Department of Biological Sciences, Dr. Lloyd O. Balinado; Instructional Materials Development Officer, Department of Biological Sciences, Prof. Liwayway P. Taglinao; and OJT Coordinator, Department of Biological Sciences, Ms. Jonah Micah A. Lagua. 

 #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | CvSU recognized as among top performing schools in May 2023 Nursing licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/31/cvsu-recognized-as-among-top-performing-schools-in-may-2023-nursing-licensure-exam/ | 2023-07-31 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) is among the colleges and universities awarded during the Recognition of Top Performing Schools and Topnotchers by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) – Professional Regulatory Board (PRB) of Nursing for the May 2023 Philippine Nurses Licensure Examination (NLE). 

 University President Hernando D. Robles, College of Nursing Dean Evelyn M. Del Mundo, and Prof. Jocelyn B. Dimayuga received the Certificate of Recognition as CvSU achieved a 100% passing rate in the May 2023 NLE. 

 CvSU alumna Ms. Jayzel M. Lozares secured the fifth spot in the May 2023 topnotchers with a rating of 90.60%. 

 The University also posted a 100% passing rate in Philippine Nurses Special Professional Licensure Examination after a taker from CvSU passed the said special exam. 

 Department of Health Secretary Dr. Teodoro J. Herbosa, together with Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) Commissioner Jose Y. Cueto, and the PRC-PRB of Nursing members presented the certificates to the top performing schools and topnotchers.

----- DOC | CvSU SHS students' study hailed Best in Science Exploratory Research | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/31/cvsu-shs-students-study-hailed-best-in-science-exploratory-research/ | 2023-07-31 -----
Photo courtesy of Olivarez College Tagaytay 
 Senior high school students of Cavite State University (CvSU) Laboratory Science High School received the Best in Science Exploratory Research award during the Senior High School 6th Research Fair, May 19, at Olivarez College Tagaytay Amphitheater.  

 Airuz Arnold D. Balungay, Jude Louvinz P. Cinto, Johanne Carl S. Ronario, and James Arnold D. Tepora coveted the said award for their study titled “Soil Analysis of Cavite State University – Don Severino Delas Alas Campus for Agricultural Production.” 

 The said undertaking was spearheaded by Olivarez College Tagaytay with the theme “Upholding Excellence in the Post Pandemic Educational Milieu.”

----- DOC | CvSU Naic hosts Student Research Congress | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/31/cvsu-naic-hosts-student-research-congress/ | 2023-07-31 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Naic Campus hosted the University Systemwide Student Research Congress themed “Integrating Multidisciplinary Perspectives in Student Research for Sustainable Development,” July 27, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 The student congress participated by high school and college students from various CvSU colleges and campuses aimed to recognize and celebrate the outstanding research achievements of CvSU students; foster interdisciplinary exchange and collaboration among them from diverse disciplines and backgrounds; and provide a platform for them to disseminate their research findings, engage in intellectual discourse, and receive feedback from esteemed mentors and peers. 

 Initiated by the Research, Development and Extension Services of CvSU Naic, the congress featured parallel sessions for the Natural Science Category, Social Science Category, and Developmental Category. 

 Present in the student congress were Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU President; Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs; and Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, CvSU Vice President for Research and Extension. 

 Invited as evaluators were Dr. Natali Sali from the University of the Philippines Diliman; Ms. Virgimin Panganiban from De La Salle Medical and Health Science Institute; Dr. Johnny Ching from De La Salle University – Dasmariñas; Prof. Harold Lipae from the University of the Philippines – Los Baños; and Prof. Rico Santos from the Technological University of the Philippines.

----- DOC | College of Criminal Justice shortlisted as Gawad Kapayapaan nominee | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/31/college-of-criminal-justice-shortlisted-as-gawad-kapayapaan-nominee/ | 2023-07-31 -----
The College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) of Cavite State University (CvSU) has been shortlisted as nominee for the 2023 Gawad Kapayapaan Peace Partner Champion.  

  

 T he Office of the Presidential Adviser on Peace, Reconciliation and Unity announced the shortlisting of Peace Partner Champion for Academe nominees which include CvSU CCJ, Ateneo de Davao University, and Bicol University – College of Social Sciences and Philosophy. 

 Other nominations for the individual category are Peace Partner Champions for Youth, Women, and Exemplary Peace Advocate. 

 Meanwhile, nominations for the group category include Peace Partner Champions for the Academe, Civil Society Organizations, National Government Agency, and Local Government Unit. 

 Image from the OPAPRU Official Facebook Page

----- DOC | Incoming First Year Students – College of Medicine | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/26/incoming-first-year-students-college-of-medicine/ | 2023-07-26 -----
We are pleased to officially announce the List of Incoming First-Year Students for the Academic Year 2023-2024 at Cavite State University – College of Medicine. 

 
 Accepted applicants will receive communications via the email (medicine_admission@cvsu.edu.ph) or SMS containing important information about the processes for medical examination, clearance, and enrollment. Please ensure that you carefully monitor your emails and cellphone for these updates. 

 
 To those who were not included in the final list, we deeply appreciate your interest in joining our program. We encourage you to persist in pursuing your dream of becoming a Doktor para sa Bayan (Doctor for the Nation). 

 
 Once again, congratulations to all the successful candidates. We eagerly look forward to guiding you on your medical journey at Cavite State University!

----- DOC | CvSU conducts orientation on Ease of Doing Business and Efficient Government Service Delivery Act of 2018 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/24/cvsu-conducts-orientation-on-ease-of-doing-business-and-efficient-government-service-delivery-act-of-2018/ | 2023-07-24 -----
Members of Cavite State University (CvSU) administrative council and Anti-Red Tape Act (ARTA) focal persons gathered for the orientation on Republic Act 11032 or the Ease of Doing Business and Efficient Government Service Delivery Act of 2018, July 24, at the CvSU International Convention Center. 

 The event was spearheaded by the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development, in cooperation with the CvSU Committee on Anti-Red Tape (CvSU-CART). 

 This activity aimed to help participants understand the provisions of RA No. 11032, apply the guidelines in streamlining the service procedure in their respective offices, and utilize the ARTA prescribed Harmonized Client Satisfaction measuring tool.

----- DOC | GAD coordinators and alternates visit Los Baños to conduct Benchmarking and Training of Trainers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/02/gad-coordinators-and-alternates-visit-los-banos-to-conduct-benchmarking-and-training-of-trainers/ | 2023-07-14 -----
To effectively pursue and eventually institutionalize gender mainstreaming in the institution, enhance gender awareness, develop knowledge and skills, and change the perceptions, attitudes, and skills in relation to gender of Cavite State University (CvSU) personnel, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) of the university successfully conducted the Benchmarking at the Municipality of Los Baños and Training of Trainers on GAD at Monte Vista Hotsprings and Conference Resort on July 11-14, 2023. 

 The CvSU personnel were welcomed by Municipal Mayor Hon. Anthony F. Genuino, Ms. Karen Lagat-Mercado, and Mr. Roberto F. Rellala Jr., who highlighted the importance of planning and various issues related to gender and development. Ms. Lagat-Mercado shared their best GAD practices, including formulating policies and incorporating GAD into their programs, activities, and projects. She also presented the GAD database of Los Baños and its role in mainstreaming GAD in the municipality. 

 Hon. Mayor Anthony F. Genuino welcomed the GAD advocates and shared that he has been conducting consultations with various barangays of Los Baños to plan projects and programs that cater to their needs. One example is the establishment of a child center for solo parents whose work performance are affected because they take care of their children. He concluded by emphasizing that through a holistic approach, mainstreaming GAD in Los Baños was a success. 

 To end the benchmarking activity, Dr. Susan G. Tan expressed her appreciation to the Municipality of Los Baños for welcoming and entertaining their queries, and she also commended their GAD database. 

 On the afternoon of Day 1, Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, GADRC Training Coordinator, divided the participants into three groups. Each group must assign someone to facilitate the levelling sessions, discuss the objectives of the training, recap the daily activities, introduce the resource speakers, and be in-charge of the ceremonies, among others. Afterwards, the participants answered the Training Needs Assessment (TNA) to identify their knowledge, skills, and abilities pertaining to GAD. 

 The second day of the training focused on the discussion of the topics “Why Be a GAD Advocate,” “Becoming a Good Facilitator and an Effective GAD advocate,” and “Basic GAD Orientation.” Before the discussion began, a levelling session was held where the participants expressed their expectations about the topics, resource speakers, participants, and the output of the training. 

 

 During the conduct of the discussion of the best practices 
 The conduct of Training Needs Assessment 
 Dr. Tan emphasized the importance of being a GAD advocate. She highlighted that advocacy involves calling out for support, understanding rights, and expressing views, and that it is not just about influencing public policy but also raising public awareness about issues. She added that GAD advocates should promote respect and equal treatment for women and men, and that they should offer independent support, assist people in accessing information, and stand up for the victims of injustice. 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator and CvSU MOVE KATROPA President, discussed the importance of being a good facilitator and effective GAD advocate. He emphasized the need for capacity and the importance of working with people to strengthen their voice and raise awareness. Mr. Agreda also highlighted the difference between being a GAD Coordinator and an advocate, and shared tips to become a good facilitator with an advocate's heart.

 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, discussed Gender Sensitivity in which she highlighted that GAD is not only for women nor is it anti-male but for everyone because both women and men are victims of gender inequality, and that as an advocate, they should create unity and not division in the society. She added that GAD is a developmental issue because of existing cases of violence against women wherein they are unable to leave violent situations due to financial dependency on their partners. 

 The third day of the training focused on GAD-related laws and the use of Gender-Fair Language. Dr. Tan discussed the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 and the Safe Spaces Act of 2019, explaining how it is applicable to university, as well as the process in handling sexual harassment complaints. Mr. Agreda discussed the Anti-Violence Against Women and their Children Act of 2004 and the cycle of violence, highlighting the alarming facts about VAW. Ms. Estebat tackled the importance of using gender-fair language to avoid discrimination, and shared suggestions for using non-sexist language in daily activities like writing letters and memoranda. 

 

 The fourth day of the activity focused on the return demo of participants, with Group 1 discussing “The Use of Gender-Fair Language,” Group 2 discussing “GAD related Laws,” and Group 3 discussing “Gender Sensitivity Orientation.” Each group was given 10 minutes to discuss their sub-topic. Dr. Tan, Mr. Agreda, and Ms. Estebat provided comments and suggestions on the return demo and tips for improving their knowledge. 

 Mr. Agreda delivered the closing message challenging the participants not to be just a GAD coordinator but to be a GAD advocate. (MCPSioco) 

 

 A group photo of the attendees of the Benchmarking and Training of Trainers (TOT) on Gender and Development (GAD). 
 A group photo at the entrance of the Municipality of Los Baños. 
 The Group 1 headed by Mr. King David J. Agreda 
 The Group 2 headed by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat 
 The Group 3 headed by Dr. Susan G. Tan

----- DOC | CvSU participates in 2023 SUC Fair | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/13/cvsu-participates-in-2023-suc-fair/ | 2023-07-13 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) joined other state universities and colleges (SUCs) in the country during the SUC Fair 2023, July 10-13, at the SM City Iloilo. 

 With the theme, “Navigating the Global Landscape through Innovations, Cultural Arts and Preservation, and Higher Education Quality,” the event is hosted by the West Visayas State University and part of the Commission on Higher Education's anniversary celebration. 

 This activity served as a platform for participating SUCs to showcase their best practices, innovations and technologies, creativity and artistry, and unique products through an exhibit. 

 Also as part of the event, Engr. Gee Jay Bartolome of CvSU presented the agri-aqua technology “HYPOD: Hybrid Powered Multicommodity Drier” during the Fair on Innovation, Research, and Extension Services (FIRES) Technology and Innovation Pitching.

----- DOC | CvSU, Bacoor City officials partner for campus extension project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/11/cvsu-bacoor-city-officials-partner-for-campus-extension-project/ | 2023-07-11 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Bacoor City Campus will soon cater to more students and other stakeholders following the signing of the deed of usufruct for the campus' extension, July 11. 

 This project will pave the way for the allocation of 16,781 sqm lot for the expansion of the CvSU Bacoor City Campus and the site of Bacoor National Science and Technology High School.  

 The said initiative was made possible through the efforts of the Office of Cavite 2nd District Rep. Lani Mercado-Revilla, City Government of Bacoor, Department of Science and Technology (DOST) – Industrial Technology Development Institute (ITDI), CvSU, and Department of Education (DepEd) – City Schools Division of Bacoor. 

 Among the officials present during the ceremonial signing are Rep. Mercado-Revilla, Bacoor City Vice Mayor Rowena Bautista-Mendiola, DOST-ITDI Director Dr. Annabelle V. Briones, CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, City Schools Division of Bacoor OIC Dr. Babylyn M. Pambid, and Molino Housing Project Chairperson Engr. Reynaldo L. Esguerra.

----- DOC | CvSU hosts post NAFSA 2023 debriefing, meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/07/cvsu-hosts-post-nafsa-2023-debriefing-meeting/ | 2023-07-07 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) President Hernando D. Robles hosted the post debriefing and meeting of NAFSA: Association of International Educators, July 6. 

 Present in the activity are representatives from higher education institutions that participated in the said conference on May 30 to June 2, including Aklan State University, Bataan Peninsula State University, Benguet State University, Cebu Normal University, Mabalacat City College, and Rizal Technological University.  

 Also in attendance are Atty. Lily Freida Milla and Ms. Clem Macatangay from Commission on Higher Education-International Affairs Staff, and Ms. Christine Grace Catindig from EducationUSA.  

 The group also had a quick tour of the CvSU AgriEco Tourism Park.

----- DOC | Pledge of commitment to TAPHE: A Community of Practice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/03/pledge-of-commitment-to-taphe-a-community-of-practice/ | 2023-07-03 -----
Cavite State University, through its Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, pledged its commitment to support the Transformative Academic Practice for Higher Education (TAPHE): A Community of Practice.  

 The said initiative aims to ensure the most enriching experience for learners in the country, in the region, and globally. 

 The signing was held on June 30 during the International Conference on Academic Practice on Higher Education spearheaded by the University of the Philippines Los Baños, University of Liverpool in the United Kingdom, and the Commission on Higher Education.

----- DOC | 23 HEI, gov't agencies visit CvSU in Q2 of 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/07/01/23-hei-govt-agencies-visit-cvsu-in-q2-of-2023/ | 2023-07-01 -----
Fostering collaboration and partnership towards internationalization and innovation in higher education in the country, Cavite State University closes second quarter of 2023 hitting a total of 23 visits by different higher education institutions, local and international, and government agencies.

 Some of the visits intend to benchmark the best practices of the university in instruction, research, and extension, administration, among others as well as form collaborative efforts through the signing of MOU/MOA, and explore the newest attraction located inside the CvSU, the Agri-Eco Tourism Park.

 Here is the table of the visits conducted from April to June 2023:

 
 
 
 HEI/Partner Agency 
 Purpose of visit 
 Date of visit 

 
 1.     Cagayan State University-Carig Campus 
 benchmarking 
 April 20, 2023 

 
 2.     University of Southeastern Philippines 
 benchmarking 
 April 24, 2023 

 
 3.     Benguet State University 
 benchmarking 
 April 28, 2023 

 
 4.     Central Bicol State University of Agriculture 
 benchmarking 
 May 03, 2023 

 
 5.     University of the Philippines-CFNR-Institute of Crop Science 
 educational visit of PGR students 
 May 08, 2023 

 
 6.     Philippine Women's University 
 MOU Signing 
 May 09, 2023 

 
 7.     Polytechnic University of the Philippines/University of Hawaii 
 Lecture/visit at VetMed 
 May 15, 2023 

 
 8.     DOST-PCIEERD 
 tour 
 May 11, 2023 

 
 9.     University of Perpetual Help System Dalta- Molino Campus 
 benchmarking 
 May 16, 2023 

 
 10.  UPOU- faculty of Management and Development Studies 
 Campus visit for monitoring 
 May 22, 2023 

 
 11.  Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng San Pablo 
 benchmarking 
 May 25, 2023 

 
 12.  UPLB-Gender Center 
 benchmarking 
 May 31, 2023 

 
 13.  Bohol Island State University 
 benchmarking 
 May 31. 2023 

 
 14.  Kyoto University 
 MOU Signing/Lecture at VetMed 
 May 28-June 01

(May 31-MOU Signing) 

 
 15.  Southern Luzon State University 
 benchmarking 
 June 01, 2023 

 
 16.  DOST-PCAARRD 
 Agri-Eco Tour 
 June 01, 2023 

 
 17.  DANAS Tagalog Project Participants 
 conduct of DANAS Tagalog Project 
 June 05, 2023 

 
 18.  Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University 
 benchmarking 
 June 08, 2023 

 
 19.  Mariano Marcos State University 
 benchmarking / tour 
 June 21, 2023 

 
 20.  Lyceum of the Philippines University 
 benchmarking 
 June 21, 2023 

 
 21.  Pangasinan State University 
 benchmarking 
 June 22, 2023 

 
 22.  Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. 
 MOU Signing 
 June 22, 2023 

 
 23.  Meta Animal Technologies 
 MOU Signing 
 June 26, 2023

----- DOC | University GADRC conducts Training of Trainers for MOVE KATROPA Officers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/02/university-gadrc-conducts-training-of-trainers-for-move-katropa-officers/ | 2023-06-28 -----
To demonstrate the competencies in providing training to internal and external clients of the university, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), in collaboration with the Cavite State University (CvSU) MOVE KATROPA,conducted the Training of Trainers on MOVE KATROPA, June 26-28, 2023, at Babaylan Training Room, GAD Resource Center. 

 
 

 The first day of the training focused on the understanding of violence and masculinity, wherein Mr. Reynaldo G. De Guia, National Chairperson of MOVE Philippines, emphasized that gender-based violence is one of the country's widespread socioeconomic problems that continues to persist despite the existence of several relevant laws curtailing it. Moreover, he highlighted the cycle of abuse, describing the pattern of behavioral characteristics that lead to abusive relationships. 

 
 During the second day, Mr. De Guia discussed the crucial role of fathers in a child's intellectual development. He emphasized that a parent's responsibility requires affection, companionship, and understanding. Afterwards, Mr. De Guia presented the MOVE advocacy as he stressed that MOVE is a group of compassionate, proactive, and principled men committed to end VAW in the Philippines. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 The third day of the training delved into responsible parenthood wherein the parents' roles, the importance of effective communication, children's rights, and household management were discussed by Ms. Marilyn F. Ogaya, Acting Regional Director of the Commission on Population (POPCOM). Ms. Ogaya emphasized that parenting is a shared responsibility for both parents and the entire family, and that they must be active listeners for effective communication. Moreover, she discussed the four pillars of family planning and noted that a planned family allows members to enjoy each other's company and build a happy and well-provided family.  (GCRSison and MCPSioco) 

 

 
 The participants of TOT on MOVE KATROPA.

----- DOC | MOU between Cavite State University and Beijing Phihua International Education Technology Co., Ltd based in China | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/27/mou-between-cavite-state-university-and-beijing-phihua-international-education-technology-co-ltd-based-in-china/ | 2023-06-27 -----
Memorandum of Understanding between Cavite State University and Beijing Phihua International Education Technology Co., Ltd based in China. 

 The ceremonial MOU Signing was spearheaded by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President with Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office, PHIHUA President, Dr. Mei Yakun with Ms. Mao Qi, Director of PHIHUA Philippine Affairs. The partnership was made for the mutual development of the two institutions and promotion of international understanding and goodwill. 

 Other witnesses of the ceremony were Dr. Rudy Sabas, consultant of PHIHUA, and CvSU officials composed of Dr. Maria Soledad M. Lising, Dean of College of Economics, Management and Development Studies; and Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office. #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | CvSU posts 100% passing rate in PNLE, among the top-performing schools | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/26/cvsu-posts-100-passing-rate-in-pnle-among-the-top-performing-schools/ | 2023-06-26 -----
Cavite State University achieved a 100% passing percentage in the May 2023 Philippine Nurses Licensure Examination given by the Board of Nursing and made it to the top 10 performing schools.

 With a national passing percentage of 74.94% or 10,764 out of 14,364 examinees successfully passed, all of the 143 passers from the CvSU-Main Campus hurdled the said licensure examination.

 Ms. Jayzel M. Lozares, a CvSU Alumna, secured the fifth spot in the May 2023 PNLEtop notchers with a rating of 90.60%.

 Moreover, the University also posted a 100% passing rate in Philippine Nurses Special Professional Licensure Examination after a taker from CvSU passed the said special exam. (CMGRafols)

----- DOC | MOU signing Between Cavite State University and Meta Animals Technologies, Inc. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/26/mou-signing-between-cavite-state-university-and-meta-animals-technologies-inc/ | 2023-06-26 -----
Memorandum of Understanding signing Between Cavite State University and Meta Animals Technologies, Inc. 

 The ceremony was led by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Abel Manalo, the President of Meta Animals Technologies, Inc., with VP Snooky Manalo. 

 Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida; Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biological Sciences, Dr. Rezin C. Bahia; were also present to witness the signing of MOU. #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | Ceremonial MOU signing between Cavite State University and Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/26/ceremonial-mou-signing-between-cavite-state-university-and-excellence-poultry-and-livestock-specialist-inc/ | 2023-06-26 -----
Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc. 

 Cavite State University will shine even more as the university begins another collaboration with Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc. The partnership aims to provide joint research and development in the areas of animal health including but not limited to veterinary product development, diagnostics, other ventures on animal health, financial grants, and internship programs. 

 The ceremonial signing was headed by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, and Director of International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, together with the Research and Development Director of Excellence Poultry and Livestock Specialist, Inc., Engr. Jerome Castro. 

 Other University officials were also present in the ceremonial signing composed including Dr. Rezin C. Bahia, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biological Sciences; Dr. Maria Cynthia Dela Cruz, Dean of Graduate School and Open Learning College; and Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director of Public Affairs and Communications Office. 

 Together with Engr. Castro was Ms. Joedith Marie Lego, Vice President of Human Resources and Administration, EDL Group of Companies. #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | CvSU shines through sports, kicks off University Games 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/23/cvsu-shines-through-sports-kicks-off-university-games-2023/ | 2023-06-23 -----
Shining through camaraderie and sportsmanship, Cavite State University has successfully conducted the University Games 2023 from June 13-17, 2023, hosted by the College of Economics, Management, and Development Studies (CEMDS) along with CvSU Imus Campus, and College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation (CSPEAR).

 After four consecutive years since the last U-Games was held in 2018, the University has triumphantly defeated the threat of the pandemic in the sports sector through the CvSU Games which was participated in by the strong delegation composed of 22 participating teams from the 11 campuses and 11 colleges of CvSU, with the theme “ CvSU Shines Through Sports ”.

 The historical event kickstarted through an opening program held on 13 June where teams paraded around the university and the program proper was held at the International Convention Center (ICON), graced by 32nd SEA Games Women's Arnis Gold Medalist Ms. Charllote Ann P. Tolentino and 7th District of Cavite Representative, Hon. Crispin Diego “Ping” D. Remulla who served as guest speakers.

 Warm commendation to the CvSU athletes for their unwavering commitment, passion, and dedication in their chosen disciplined was conveyed by the Officer-In-Charge (OIC) to the Office of the University President, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, in her welcome remarks. She also acknowledged the efforts of the coaches, trainers, and supporters of the athletes who have nurtured them and guided them along the way, as well as expressed her gratitude to the hosts of the CvSU Games 2023.

 In his inspirational message, Rep. Ping Remulla reminded the delegates that sports events are more than just chasing championships, it should be more about chasing learning. Meanwhile, Ms. Tolentino shared her inspiring journey before gaining the success she achieved today, especially before she became a SEA Games 2023 champion to motivate the CvSU athletes. She also added that the event is not about feelings but performance and reminded them that they are already a winner for those who believe in them.

 The Lighting of Urn was led by Mr. Rhyne Caraquel, an athlete from CSPEAR, and ensued by the unfolding of Sports Banners of participating teams headed by their respective college deans and campus directors.

 Headed by Ms. Alyssa L. Laylo, an athlete from CEMDS, the student-athletes took an Oath of Sportsmanship before the formal opening of games, announced by Dr. Nuestro which signaled the official start of the weeklong sports competitions in the Main Campus.

 CvSU Hornets also energized the delegates and other attendees of the program through a unity cheer and showcased their breathtaking performance in cheer dancing through a special number.

 CEMDS Dean, Dr. Mariel Mojica-Lising, delivered the closing remarks in which she looked forward to the success of the event as CEMDS served as the main host. She also acknowledged the efforts of the committee behind the historical U-Games 2023.

 Sports competitions conducted during U-Games 2023 include basketball, badminton, volleyball, baseball, football, futsal, beach volleyball, table tennis, lawn tennis, arnis, sepak takraw, chess, swimming, taekwondo, karatedo, billiards, and dance sports. The STRASUC Culture and The Arts (CAF) Local Search 2023 was also conducted on June 14-15, in which winners will represent the University in STRASUC CAF 2023 regional competition in October. ( CMGRafols)

----- DOC | CvSU inks MOA with Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/09/cvsu-inks-moa-with-real-life-foundation-inc/ | 2023-06-22 -----
The ceremony was led by Prof. Ma Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office and the signing was headed by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, together with Ms. Mae G. Perez, Executive Director of Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. 

 The Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. is a Philippine Christian non-government, non-profit organization registered with the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), accredited by the Philippine Council for NGO Certification (PCNC), and an official partner of the Department of Education (DepEd) and Victory. It was recognized as a Foundation that provides educational assistance to financially challenged students. The Foundation offers holistic programs for universities and families. They envision supporting students to graduate with integrity, leadership, and humble character, which they believe would be better for society. Real LIFE Foundation, Inc. teaches its scholars that “Leadership is not about the position but about serving the people”. 

 Attendees from Real LIFE Foundation Inc. were Ms. Bernadette Gener, Educational Partnerships Officer; Mr. Jose Dimayuga, President of Victory Cavite; Mr. Robin Esteba; Mr. Jeff Serioso; Ms. Minette Villalobos; Ms. Maan Miguel; Mr. Ryamph Dave Majesterio; Mr. Ferdinand Deguilmo; Mr. Jeck Matel; Mr. Gilbert Naron; Mr. Danny Villalobos; and Mr. Joderick Gonzales. 

 CvSU officials who witnessed this notable event were Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP for Academic Affairs; Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, VP for Administrative and Support Service; Dr. Noel Sedigo, Trece Campus Administrator; Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office; Ms. Belleth E. Hosmillo; Ms. Lilian O. Sidamon; and Ms. Gwena Rochiel Lontoc. #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | Orientation on VAW laws for IAPWDI members | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/orientation-on-vaw-laws-for-iapwdi-members/ | 2023-06-19 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), in partnership with Indang Association of Person with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI), conducted a seminar titled “VAW Laws (RA 7877 and RA 11313),” June 15, at the GADRC Babaylan Training Room. 

 GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan served as the resource speaker in which she discussed VAW Laws particularly the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act (RA 7877) and the Safe Spaces Act (RA 11313). Sexual harassment, according to Dr. Tan, can occur in schools and the workplace. She emphasized that the victim's perception of the situation as wanted or unwanted determines whether it is sexual harassment. She explained that according to R.A. 7877, the legislation only applies to the workplace and educational and training institutions, where workers, applicants, students, and those receiving training are potential victims of sexual harassment, and sexual offenders are those in positions of power or authority. 

 Dr. Tan defined sexual harassment as “uninvited verbal or physical behavior of a sexual nature” and categorizes it into three types: verbal, nonverbal, and physical. Dr. Tan encouraged the participants to reject the advance forcefully but politely, yet loudly and conspicuously enough for possible witnesses to hear and see. 

 Moreover, Dr. Tan explained that RA 7877 is restricted to the context of work, education, and/or training; while the RA 11313 encompasses the street, public areas, and cyberspace, and the perpetrators/offenders are defined as any individual regardless of status or position. 

 Dr. Tan also discussed gender-based online sexual harassment, stating that victims are harassed or abused through sexually explicit or offensive content, threats, or unwanted approaches through online platforms. She also elaborated on the penalties for sexual harassment. 

 Dr. Tan during the discussion 
 During the open forum 
 Awarding of certificate

----- DOC | Webinar on Child labor: Protect children from child labor, now more than ever | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/webinar-on-child-labor-protect-children-from-child-labor-now-more-than-ever/ | 2023-06-08 -----
The Cavite State University (CvSU) through the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar titled “Child Labor: Protect Children from Child Labor, Now More than Ever,” June 8, via video conferencing and Facebook Live. 

 This webinar aims to raise awareness about sexual abuse and exploitation, focusing on Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Materials (CSAEM), Online Sexual Exploitation of Children (OSEC), and Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (CSEC). 

 

 College of Engineering and Information Technology Dean Dr. Willie C. Buclatin delivered the opening message, expressing hope that the webinar would shed light on the current issues of child labor which affects children's physical and mental development, depriving them of their youth. 

  

  

 RIACAT-VAWC IV-A Project Development Officer III and Secretariat Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte discussed CSEC which occurs when individuals under the age of 18 engage in or are forced into prostitution and pornography in exchange for money or material payment. Meanwhile, Mr. Villafuerte defines OSEC as child sexual exploitation that is facilitated or occurs via the internet and other related media. He also shared the four main types of OSAEC which include grooming, livestreaming, consuming child sexual abuse material, and coercing and blackmailing children for sexual purposes. 

 DOLE Cavite Community Facilitator Ms. Dianne G. Digma presented “Revisiting Child labour-related laws and Policies on the Protection of Children.” She mentioned that the Special Release on Working Children and the Situation of Child Labour (2019–2021) was published by the Philippine Statistics Authority on March 3, 2023. 

 Ms. Digma clarified the distinction between child labour which is hazardous work or exploitative, depriving rights to health and education, ongoing and for long periods of time, and prohibited; and child work, which is light work (when children learn to take responsibility), respects rights to health and education, and is occasionally permitted. 

 College of Criminal Justice Dean Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic delivered the closing message in which she expressed her heartfelt gratitude to the GADRC headed by Dr. Susan G. Tan and to the speakers, hoping that everyone would learn from this webinar. 

  

  

  

 Resource speakers of the webinar: Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte (left), and Ms. Dianne G. Digma (right) 
 Participants of the webinar on child labor

----- DOC | GADRC Director shares role of HEIs in promoting and mainstreaming GAD to Northern Illinois University students and professors | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/02/gadrc-director-shares-role-of-heis-in-promoting-and-mainstreaming-gad-to-northern-illinois-university-students-and-professors/ | 2023-06-07 -----
As part of the Demonstrating and Advancing Acquisition of Tagalog (DANAS Tagalog) project, eleven (11) students and professors from the Northern Illinois University had the opportunity to learn about the role of higher education institutions (HEIs) in promoting and mainstreaming Gender and Development (GAD). 

 On June 7, 2023, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, shared CvSU's best practices in mainstreaming GAD, highlighting that the university has been recognized four times in a row as the Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation within the Calabarzon Region. Dr. Tan then discussed some of the practices that helped the university become more gender-responsive and inclusive, such as incorporating GAD principles into instruction, research, extension, and operational support. 

 

 Ms. Rhodalyne Crail, a professor at the Northern Illinois University, said that their university also organizes training sessions and seminars on VAWC (Violence against Women and Children) and Anti-Sexual Harassment, which are necessary for both students and faculty members to attend. She commended CvSU's advocacy song which promotes gender equality, fairness, and justice. (MCPSioco and JKRebutazo) 

 During the discussion of Dr. Susan G. Tan 
 A group photo of students and professors from Northern Illinois University with the GADRC Personnel

----- DOC | Ceremonial MOA Signing between Cavite State University (CvSU) and Metro Pacific Tollways Corporation (MPTC). | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/06/07/ceremonial-moa-signing-between-cavite-state-university-cvsu-and-metro-pacific-tollways-corporation-mptc/ | 2023-06-07 -----
Ceremonial Memorandum of Agreement Signing between Cavite State University (CvSU) and Metro Pacific Tollways Corporation (MPTC). 

 The partnership seeks to effectively implement the MPTC Scholarship Program which aims to provide scholarship opportunities to economically challenged but deserving students enrolled in undergraduate degree programs. The said scholarship focuses on Accounting, Information and Technology, Engineering, and Education programs.  

 MPTC President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rodrigo E. Franco led the event at Novotel Manila, Quezon City. To represent Cavite State University, the CvSU Officer-In-Charge to the office of the University President, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro virtually participated in the MOA signing and was accompanied by the Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida. 

 #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | UPLB visits CvSU to benchmark GADRC's best practices | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/10/02/uplb-visits-cvsu-to-benchmark-gadrcs-best-practices/ | 2023-05-31 -----
With Cavite State University's (CvSU) Gender and Development (GAD) Resource Center (GADRC) being recognized as four-time Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon, the University of the Philippines-Los Baños (UPLB), led by its Gender Center Director Nelson Jose Vincent B. Querijero and other UPLB personnel, benchmarked GADRC's best practices on May 31, 2023. 

 
 The programs, activities, and projects in creating a gender-responsive and inclusive university were discussed by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation. She emphasized how GAD has been integrated in the university instruction, research, extension, and support to operation. 

 
 Mr. Leslie Bolañol, DX Project Leader, then presented the UPLB project, “UPLB Gender: Development and Implementation of a Gender-Responsive Digital Enterprise Architecture,” intended to digitally mainstream GAD in order to create a university that is more gender-responsive and future-proof. 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, giving her warm welcome to the UPLB personnel. 
 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat presenting GADRC's best practices. 
 Mr. Leslie Bolañol presenting the UPLB's project. 
 A group photo of the UPLB and GADRC personnel. 
 UPLB visiting the CvSU Agri-EcoTourism Park, the only SUC-based park recognized by the Department of Tourism (DOT).

----- DOC | PLSP benchmarks GADRC's best practices | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/25/plsp-benchmarks-gadrcs-best-practices/ | 2023-05-25 -----
In order to develop a gender-responsive and inclusive institution, the Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng San Pablo (PLSP) Center for Gender and Development assesses the best practices of the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) on May 25, 2023.

 Officials and staff of the PLSP headed by their President, Dr. Sigfredo C. Adaja, together with acting Vice President for Academic Affairs, Prof. Lorena E. Bautista, and acting Vice President for Administration Planning and Finance Mr. Mark Francis P. Donato, were warmly welcomed by University President, Dr Hernando D. Robles and GADRC Director, Dr. Susan G. Tan.

 Dr. Robles expressed his gratitude to PLSP delegates for visiting the university and GADRC. He also shared that the university had attended the SEAMEO RIHED seminars held by Oxford University and it has progressed to Gender Equality, Diversity, and Social Inclusion (GEDSI). He also added that the university's GADRC has been recognized by the CALABARZON Regional Development Council (RDC) as the Most Outstanding State University GAD Implementer in the region for four (4) years in a row.

 An audio-visual presentation (AVP) was presented to the PLSP delegates to give them an overview CvSU's humble beginnings. Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, imparted the GADRC's best practices through the four (4) entry points of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (policy, people, enabling mechanisms, and programs, activities, and projects). She also noted that the GADRC's four-time award was made possible by the top management's unwavering support for the GADRC's efforts to mainstream gender and development. (MCPSioco) 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan as she warmly welcomes the delegates of PLSP. 
 Dr. Hernando D. Robles giving his message and showcasing the university's best practices. 
 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat presenting the GADRC's best practices. 
  

 The delegated from the PLSP and staffs of the GADRC. 
 The Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng San Pablo visited the Technology Demonstration Farm.

----- DOC | CvSU alumna and SEA Games gold medalist pays courtesy visit to PHDR | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/22/cvsu-alumna-and-sea-games-gold-medalist-pays-courtesy-visit-to-phdr/ | 2023-05-22 -----
After bringing home the gold medal from the recent 32nd Southeast Asian (SEA) Games 2023 in Cambodia, CvSU alumna, Ms. Charllote Ann P. Tolentino paid a courtesy visit to the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles.

 Ms. Tolentino won the gold medal in the SEA Games' Women's Padded Stick (Arnis) event- 50kg category.  She is an alumna of CvSU under the Bachelor of Sports and Recreational Management, batch 2018, and a former faculty member at CvSU-CCAT Campus.

 Additionally, Ms. Tolentino also bagged the gold medal in the National Battle of Champions 2023 conducted by the Philippine Eskrima Kali Arnis Federation (PEKAF) on February 25-26.

----- DOC | Ms. Estebat speaks at BRITE Center training seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/22/ms-estebat-speaks-at-brite-center-training-seminar/ | 2023-05-22 -----
In collaboration with the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), the CvSU Bee Research, Innovation, Trade, and Extension (BRITE) Center conducted an activity titled “ Beyond the Hive: Introduction to Apis Cerena (Laywan) Beekeeping Batch 23 on May 22, 2023, at the Interdisciplinary Research Building Conference Room, Cavite State University which was attended by internal and external stakeholders of the CvSU BRITE.

 BRITE Center Director, Prof. Michelle T. Bono expressed her gratitude to all attendees of the seminar in her opening message and encouraged everyone to spend the rest of the day learning and increasing their level of understanding of the topics to be discussed by the highly esteemed speakers. Mr. Dickson Romero, Extension Service Head, took the roll call and also served as the event moderator.

 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC's In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, oriented the participants on gender sensitivity citing that GAD is neither only for women nor anti-male but for everyone as both women and men can experience gender inequality.

 She also added that due to violence against women and children (VAWC), gender and development issues are still progressing and that women are unable to leave violent situations due to financial dependency on their partners. She noted that the BRITE Center's livelihood initiatives can help alleviate this financial reliance.

 Moreover, she emphasized that advertising is part of the marketing strategy and reminded everyone that these advertisements should not be used to discriminate against men and women. (MCPSioco) 

 Ms. Estebat discussing the Gender Sensitivity 
 Some of the participants actively participating in the discussion 
 Awarding of Certificate

----- DOC | Orientation on anti-bullying held for IAPWDI members | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/orientation-on-anti-bullying-held-for-iapwdi-members/ | 2023-05-22 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) in partnership with Indang Association of Person with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) conducted “Orientation on Anti-Bullying” held at the Babaylan Training Room, GAD Resource Center, May 18. 

   IAPWDI President Mr. Florian H. De Borja delivered the opening remarks where he expressed his appreciation to all the participants and to GAD Resource Center. 

 GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan during her discussion 
 GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan tackled the types of bullying, including physical, verbal, social, racial, sexual disability, and cyberbullying. She also discussed the effects of bullying among students and employees in their workplace. She emphasized that corrective or disciplinal action are not considered as a form of bullying. 

 Dr. Tan also discussed the penalties under the prohibitions on verbal, non-verbal ridicule and vilification against Persons with Disability of the R.A. 9442, an act amending R.A. 7277 otherwise known as the “Magna Carta for Person with Disability.” 

 Dr. Tan said that bullying is a sequence of actions and does not happen in a single event. She emphasized that giving respect to yourself and to others shows your worth as a person. 

 During the open forum, Mr. De Borja also shared that self-acceptance is one of the ways to be resilient in the face of criticism. 

  

 During the Open Forum 
  

 Awarding of certificate

----- DOC | SPRINT Center conducts Strategic Planning for 2023-2028 and Stakeholders Consultation Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/16/sprint-center-conducts-strategic-planning-for-2023-2028-and-stakeholders-consultation-meeting/ | 2023-05-16 -----
The Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center conducted a Strategic Planning for 2023-2028 and Stakeholders Consultation Meeting last April 20, 2023 at S.M. Rolle Hall, Cavite State University – Don Severino de las Alas Campus, Indang, Cavite. The event aimed to formulate the mission and vision statements and roadmap of the SPRINT Center for 2023-2028, organize the center's gender-responsive strategic planning for 2023-2028, and frame the Center's operational plan for 2023; finalize the official list of research and extension team of the SPRINT Center; assess the identified and designated thematic areas of research; and conduct a stakeholders' consultation meeting.

 In attendance with the SPRINT Center Research and Extension team were barangay officials, kaong farmers, traders, and processors from Brgy. Alulod, Kayquit II, Kayquit III, Daine I, Daine II, Tambo Malaki and Guyam Munti; participants from Magallanes Business Owners Credit Cooperative, Queentown Farm in Indang, Department of Tourism, Municipal Agriculture Office, Office of Councilor Nilo Telmo, Association of Barangay Captains in Indang; Cavite Provincial Government Environment and Natural Resources Office, Department of Science and Technology, Department of Trade and Industry, and Office of the Provincial Agriculturist as well as some students.

 For. Junser P. Magpantay, director of SPRINT Center delivered the welcome remarks. It was followed by the introduction of participants facilitated by Mr. Alfie Carl A. Battung, research assistant of SPRINT Center, and an introduction to SPRINT Center personnel and members of the SPRINT Research and Extension Team by For. Magpantay.

 Resource persons invited were Prof. King David J. Agreda for Gender Responsive Strategic Planning and Dr. Ruel M. Mojica for the crafting of SPRINT Center's vision, mission, and road map. Right after the discussion, For. Magpantay facilitated the Community Needs Assessment as final activity ( JLBHerrera) .

----- DOC | SPRINT Center provides senile kaong trees to DOST-FPRDI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/16/sprint-center-provides-senile-kaong-trees-to-dost-fprdi/ | 2023-05-16 -----
The Department of Science and Technology – Forest Products Research Institute (DOST-FPRDI) visited Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center on April 12-14, 2023. During the visit, DOST-FPRDI harvested nine senile kaong trees within the premises of Cavite State University – Main Campus. The harvested senile kaong trees were transported to their research facility at Los Baños, Laguna tol serve as research materials for their project entitled “Development of High-Value Products Derived from Senile Sugar Palms ( Arenga pinnata ). The main objective of the project is to utilize and develop functional and aesthetic products from the trunk of a senile sugar palm.

 The SPRINT Center and DOST-FPRDI are currently working on a Memorandum of Agreement related to the above-mentioned project  (JLBHerrera).

----- DOC | QS Stars Rating Task Force holds post-evaluation meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/15/qs-stars-rating-task-force-holds-post-evaluation-meeting/ | 2023-05-15 -----
In line with the recently awarded 3-STAR to Cavite State University by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Stars Rating on 17 March 2023, the CvSU- QS Stars Rating Task Force concluded the 2022 QS Star journey of the university through a post-evaluation meeting on 11 May 2023 at CvSU International Convention Center (ICON).

 The CvSU QS Task Force was the responsible technical working committee in reviewing the criteria of the QS Stars Audit and recommending a plan of action to the University for implementation; preparing and gathering the needed documents and materials for the actual QS Stars Audit, and conducting the initial assessment of the documents and materials to be submitted to QS Stars.

 The task force was composed of eleven (11) groups designated to different categories: Executive Committee, Compliance Committee, QS Stars Overall Coordinators, Teaching, Employability, Academic Development, Facilities, Program Strength, Social Responsibility, Inclusiveness, and Internationalization.

 With the aim to look back on the entire journey of the institution, the meeting was attended by the committee in which an exchange of experiences and strategies used by each team in the preparation of the CvSU for the assessment by QS was held. Collective efforts exerted by the task force were also recognized during the function.

 The meeting was spearheaded by the CvSU QS Stars Team Leader, Dr. Mariel Mojica-Lising, and was graced by the University executive officials headed by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles; Vice President for Planning and Development Mary Jane D. Tepora, Vice President for Academic Affairs Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation Lolita G. Herrera, and Vice President for Research and Extension Melbourne R. Talactac, together with other key officials and personnel of the university who were also part of the CvSU QS Star Rating working committees.

----- DOC | GADRC spearheads Leadership Seminar-Workshop for Administrative Council Members | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/10/gadrc-spearheads-leadership-seminar-workshop-for-administrative-council-members/ | 2023-05-10 -----
To further encourage gender-responsive leadership in the university system, the Gender and Development Resource Center conducted a two-day leadership seminar-workshop for the members of the administrative council of Cavite State University, held at the International Convention Center (ICON) on May 9 to 10, 2023.

 With the theme, “Reframing Leadership to a Gender-Responsive Leadership” , the seminar-workshop opened an opportunity for the participants to reflect on the university's organizational leadership aligned with their personal lives, and be equipped with enough knowledge and be encouraged to achieve a gender-responsive university through the activities and diverse topics expounded by several well-established resource speakers.

 

 University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles commended the members and organizers in his welcome remarks, for another step towards making the university truly a home for advocates of gender equality in all of its units, departments, and campuses.

  

  

  

 

 To provide a refresher in Gender and Development and discuss Gender Responsive Leadership, Miriam College Women and Gender Institute (WAGI) Program Coordinator, Ms. Danica C. Gonzales-Saurombe led the first-day morning session, integrating both individual and group activities that focused mainly on each department/unit's mission, vision, goals and objectives.

  

  

 The participants were able to reflect more on their leadership, personality, and work environment as Ms. Maria Romila Tan from World Vision International, Global Center Manila kickstarted the afternoon discussion with the topics, ' Who Are You? The Four Main Personality Profiles of a Leader ' and ' The Value of Strong Workplace Ethics' .

 Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, GADRC Training Coordinator moderated the sharing of the participants of some of their key first-day takeaways before the second-day session commenced.

  

 The third resource speaker, Miriam College WAGI Executive Director, Dr. Melanie M. Reyes was greeted by the audience with great interest and active participation while she proceeded to discuss and facilitate a group activity about Gender Responsive Planning and Budgeting.

  

  

  

 To end the second day's afternoon session with a notable experience for everyone, Ms. Amelia De-Chavez Pagdanganan, a Mental Health Advocate, Public Speaker, and Published Author, moved the participants with her own real-life experiences aligned with Leadership and Mental Health, introducing the self-written books she published for circulation and signed book for the participants who requested an autograph in the materials they purchased.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, awarded the Certificates of Appreciation to each of the resource speakers and facilitated the post-test and evaluation that the participants should accomplish.

  

 University Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga formally ended the activity by expressing his greetings to the participants who successfully completed the two-day seminar-workshop, emphasizing the need to put everything they learned into action in their respective departments and units.

  

  

  

 Pictures during the activity in the two-day seminar – workshop 
 Awarding of the Resource Speakers Certificates together with Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of Gender and Development Resource Center 
 

 Participants of the two – day seminar – workshop

----- DOC | Virtual MOU signing between CvSU-CVMBS and Obihiro University of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/08/virtual-mou-signing-between-cvsu-cvmbs-and-obihiro-university-of-agriculture-and-veterinary-medicine/ | 2023-05-08 -----
Earlier today, a virtual Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signing was held between Cavite State University- College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) represented by the University President, DR. HERNANDO D. ROBLES, and National Research Center for Protozoan Diseases, Obihiro University of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine based in Japan represented by its Director General, DR. SHIN-ICHIRO KAWAZU. 

 This marks the beginning of more academic collaboration, institutional programmes, educational activities and other extension services and research. The event was spearheaded by Dr. 

  Adrian Miki C. Macalanda, Chairperson of Department of Immunopathology and Microbiology, CVMBS and Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office. 

 CvSU officials witnessing the ceremony are the Vice President for Research and Extension, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac; Dean of College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Dr. Rezin C. Bahia; Director of Public Affairs and Communication Office, Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete; and CVMBS faculty members, Dr. Alvin William Alvarez and Dr. Emmanuel Mago. 

 #SHINECvSU

----- DOC | Admission Result for First Semester, SY 2023-2024 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/05/02/admission-result-for-first-semester-sy-2023-2024/ | 2023-05-02 -----
Announcement: CvSU Main Campus Admission Result for 

 First Semester, SY 2023-2024 

 Out of 34,667 incoming first year applicants who registered online, only 6,507 applicants can be admitted in the Main Campus due to its limited carrying capacity. 

 List of Qualified Applicants for College Admission 

 First Semester, SY 2023-2024 

 Applicants can confirm the slot beginning May 2 to June 13, 2023 . Failure to confirm slot within the given period will mean forfeiture of application for the course. 

 PROCEDURE FOR CONFIRMATION OF SLOT: 

 STEP 1: Using the registered email account, log-in to the Online Student Admission System – https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ 

 STEP 2: In the Menu bar, go to the ADMISSION RESULT section. Update your personal information. 

 STEP 3: Read the content message stating the course that you are qualified to enroll in. 

 STEP 4: Answer the survey form for internet connectivity, ICT readiness and family monthly income. 

 STEP 5: Click the “CONFIRM” button to confirm slot. Download and print the Notice of Admission (NOA) form . 

  

 THE RESULT OF EVALUATION FOR TRANSFEREE APPLICATIONS AND TCP APPLICATIONS WILL BE POSTED SEPARATELY 

 OPEN FOR REAPPLICATION 

 The following courses are open for reapplication, only for those applicants who did not qualify to their first preferred applied course and who were able to take their admission examination: 

 This re-application is first come, first serve basis only . 

 
 
 
 PROGRAM 
 NUMBER OF AVAILABLE SLOTS 

 
 BA Communication (BA Comm) 
 40 

 
 BA English Language Studies (BAELS) 
 24 

 
 BA Journalism (BAJourn) 
 59 

 
 Bachelor of Agricultural Entrepreneurship (BAE) 
 13 

 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (BECED) 
 50 

 
 Bachelor of Special Needs Education (BSNED) 
 62 

 
 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education (BTLED) 
 30 

 
 BS Exercise and Sports Science (BSESS) 
 149 

 
 BS Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering (BSABE) 
 7 

 
 BS Applied Mathematics (BSAM) 
 98 

 
 BS Biology (BSBio) 
 6 

 
 BS Business Management – Operations Management (BSBM-OM) 
 20 

 
 BS Business Management – Service Management (BSBM-SM) 
 37 

 
 BS Development Communication (BSDC) 
 40 

 
 BS Development Management (BSDM) 
 49 

 
 BS Economics (BSEcon) 
 148 

 
 BS Environmental Science (BSES) 
 60 

 
 BS Industrial Security Management (BSISM) 
 205 

 
 BS Industrial Technology – major in Electronics (BSIndT-EX) 
 15 

 
 BS Social Work (BSSW) 
 42 

 
 Diploma in Midwifery (MW) 
 61 

 
 
 LIST OF QUALIFIED APPLICANTS AND PROCEDURES FOR REAPPLICATION WILL BE POSTED SOON. 

  

 PROCEDURE AFTER CONFIRMING THE SLOT (FOR QUALIFIED APPLICANTS ONLY): 

 PRE-REGISTRATION MEDICAL PROCEDURE 

 STEP 1. Obtain NOTICE OF ADMISSION (NOA) provided in the CvSU Admission System. 

 STEP 2. Decide whether you prefer to undergo Medical Examination from the CvSU Infirmary or Other DOH Accredited Clinic (if you choose CvSU Infirmary Option refer to STEPS I-VIII; for Other DOH Accredited Clinics Option refer to STEPS A-D). Make sure that you have saved the selected OPTION. Unsaved option will not be acknowledged. 

 CvSU INFIRMARY OPTION 

 Step I. Decide and secure your preferred date for your schedule of Laboratory and X-Ray via the CvSU Admission System ( https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ ). Make sure that you have saved the selected date. Unsaved date will not be acknowledged. 

 Step II. Proceed to the University Cashier at the Administration Building and pay P 550.00 for your medical examination 

 Step III. Proceed to the University Infirmary on your scheduled date and present your NOA and Receipt to secure Queuing number . 

 Step IV. Once your number is called, submit your NOA to the Nurse on Duty (NOD) for Encoding. Secure your Laboratory & Xray Requests and Claim stub from the NOD and have your vital signs taken. 

 Step V. Proceed with your Diagnostic Tests in Room 105 for your laboratory tests and Room 103 for your chest Xray . ( Results will be available after 2 Working Days ) 

 Step VI. Return to the University Infirmary on the schedule indicated in your claim stub . Present your claim stub to the NOD to claim you Student Record and result of your diagnostic tests . 

 Step VII. Proceed to Room 102 for your Dental Examination . 

 Step VIII. Proceed to Room 101/108 for your Physical Examination . 

 Step IX. Secure your Medical Clearance and proceed with your Enrollment. (Make sure your Medical Clearance is signed by both the Physician and Dentist before proceeding with your enrollment) 

 OTHER DOH ACCREDITED CLINIC OPTION 

 Step A. Download the Student Health Record (USHE-QF-15) and Referral Form provided in the CvSU Admission System . 

 Step B. Undergo COMPLETE BLOOD COUNT, BLOOD TYPING, HBSAG DETERMINATION, CHEST X-RAY, PHYSICAL & DENTAL EXAMINATION from any DOH Accredited Diagnostic Clinic, Rural Health Clinic or Hospital of choice. 

 Step C. Once complete, fill up this google form 

 https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeM73Do9aHlEx8EwKvs-53jAPnYaRHP-vFeS_Fj-jCgXyfiuQ/viewform?usp=share_link 

 and attach all required documents for assessment by the University Health Services. 

 Step D. Wait for an email after 2 Working Days for your Medical Clearance from the University Health Services and proceed with the enrollment process. 

  

 PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION: 

 Step 1: After claiming your Medical Clearance from the University Infirmary, you may immediately submit to the University Registrar's Office the following requirements: 

 A. FOR FIRST YEAR STUDENTS (ORIGINAL AND PHOTOCOPY) 

 1. Accomplished Student Information Sheet (UREG-QF-02) which is accessible/downloadable from Admission System ( https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ ) 

 2. Form 138 or Senior High School Report Card 

 3. Latest Certification of Good Moral Character 

 4. Notice of Admission (NOA) 

 5. Medical Clearance (CvSU Infirmary) 

 6. Short Brown Envelope 

 7. Printed Requirements Checklist (A4 size) 

 (link: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1vJmtAMDjXLykidMEv1YxtIu-9IrlOpHx?usp=sharing ) 

 Step 2: After submitting your complete requirements, your Student Number and Portal Credentials will be emailed to you at your registered email address. 

 Step 3: Your schedule and enrolled subjects will be accessible via your student portal before the start of the official opening of classes.

----- DOC | GADRC holds webinar on Occupational Safety and Health | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/27/gadrc-holds-webinar-on-occupational-safety-and-health/ | 2023-04-27 -----
In support of the annual World Day for Safety and Health at Work observed every 28 th of April, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a Webinar on Building a Culture of Prevention in Occupational Safety and Health on April 27, 2023 via Zoom and Facebook live.

 Mr. Dexter Mendoza, Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Practitioner of CONSAFE, discussed the Workplace Risk and Trends in Occupational Safety and Health which include major topics such as environmental safety and industrial hygiene, identifying various workplace hazards, measuring the work environment, and administrative control consisting of right procedures, guidelines, training, and emergency plans.

 Mr. Dexter Mendoza during his discussion on Environmental Safety and Industrial Hygiene 
 On the other hand, Engr. Marc Brian Torres of DOLE-Laguna Provincial Office explained the Working Conditions: Protection of Women Employees and CSC-DOH-DOLE Joint Memorandum Circular No. 1, s. 2020 in which he primarily focused on the key components of the said joint memorandum along with RA 11313 Safe Space Act/ Bawal Bastos Law; RA 7877 Anti-Sexual Harassment Law: Forms of Sexual Harassment 2020; Provision for Reasonable Working Experience; Duties and Responsibilities of Safety and Health Officer; Duties, Function, and Components of Safety and Health Committee; and Provisions and Statutory Mandatory Benefits for Women.

 Engr. Marc Brian Torres during his discussion on the salient features of the CSC-DOH-DOLE Joint Memorandum Circular No. 1, S. 2020 
 Ms. Hydra Jane Pantilgan During her discussion on Reproductive Health 
 Mandatory Benefits for Women. Ms. Hydra Jane Pantilgan, Principal of the Department of Midwifery of the College of Nursing (CoN) discussed the reproductive health and occupational hazards among Women Workers wherein she highlighted the risks being faced by female employees in the workplace, the impact of chemicals on female reproduction, and the functions of the female reproductive system. She also added that exposure to hazards might cause low birth weight, early birth, miscarriage, stillbirths, and changes in the menstrual cycle. Furthermore, she categorized substances that can contaminate breast milk, such as mercury and other volatile organic substances. (GCRSison and MCPSioco)

----- DOC | CHEDRO IV awards certificates of recognition to CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/24/chedro-iv-awards-certificates-of-recognition-to-cvsu/ | 2023-04-24 -----
The University received Certificates of Recognition from the Commission on Higher Education-(CHED) Regional Office IV on 24 April 2023 during the 1st Anniversary celebration of the CHEDRO- IV in Lipa City, Batangas.

 With the theme of “ Advocating Proactive Mobility Through Transnational Higher Education ”, Cavite State University was awarded during the ceremony as the 1st Higher Education Institution with the most number of Level III Accredited programs (21 programs in total), and was recognized for securing 85 Certificates of Program Compliance (COPCs) and as one of CHED CALABARZON's Center of Excellence (COE).

 The certificates were received by the university executive officials composed of President Hernando D. Robles, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Business and Resource Generation Lolita G. Herrera, Vice President for Planning and Development Mary Jane D. Tepora, and Vice President for Administrative and Support Services Camilo A. Polinga.

----- DOC | IAPWDI members undergo seminar on caring, handling persons with Down syndrome | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/iapwdi-members-undergo-seminar-on-caring-handling-persons-with-down-syndrome/ | 2023-04-24 -----
In partnership with the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), the Indang Association of Person with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) conducted a seminar titled “Caring and How to Handle the Person with Down Syndrome” on April 20, 2023, at the IAPWDI Office, Barangay IV, Indang, Cavite. 

 IAPWDI President Mr. Florian H. De Borja delivered the opening remarks, expressing his appreciation to all participants who attended the seminar. 

 IAPWDI member Ms. Soledad R. Ruedas served as the resource person, emphasizing the realities and misconceptions about Down syndrome and the medical intervention. She shared her journey with her daughter who has down syndrome. 

 Ms. Ruedas also delivered a poem titled “Welcome to Holland,” in which she reminisced her daughter's childhood years. She recounted her daughter's story and shared her experiences and the challenges she encountered in raising her daughter until she started studying. 

 As she conveyed her love for her daughter, she highlighted the necessity of guidance and support for a person with down syndrome, emphasizing that they have emotions and sentiments. 

 Mr. De Borja expressed his gratitude and appreciation to the speaker in this seminar. 

 Registration 
 During the seminar 
 Ms. Soledad R. Ruedas (right) and her daughter reading the poem titled 'Welcome to Holland' 
 Ms. Soledad R. Ruedas sharing their life story. 
 Awarding of Certificate

----- DOC | GADRC joins orientation of program, agency visit at NCDA and RBI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/20/gadrc-joins-orientation-of-program-agency-visit-at-ncda-and-rbi/ | 2023-04-20 -----
To impart new learning in the execution of efficient programs and services for the disability sector and acquaint participants with the organizations to be visited, the Cavite Persons with Disability Affairs Office (Cavite-PDAO) facilitated an Agency Visit and Orientation of Programs and Services at the National Council on Disability Affairs (NCDA) and Resources for the Blind, Inc (RBI) in Quezon City on April 20, 2023.

 

 NCDA Executive Director Juanito F. Fradejas, welcomed the delegates to NCDA in his remarks and assured them that the council is always open to hear and address all their queries.

 

 Mr. Randy C. Calseña, NCDA Regional Program Director shared about the NCDA Programs and Services such as Orientation on Disability Inclusive Governance in the different provinces of the Philippines, Person with Disability Summit (per region), Inclusive Agriculture, and the establishment of cooperatives with the Department of Agrarian Reform and Department of Agriculture. He also cited that as of April 11, 2023, 909 desktop computers have been donated to LGUs for PRPWD uploading, and 919, 292 PWDs are registered in Philippine Registry for Person and Disability (PRPWD).

 Meanwhile, in his talk about the latest developments in Disability Laws, Regional Program Coordinator Atty. Walter Jason G. Alava emphasized the Magna Carta for Persons with Disabilities (R.A. No. 7227) which focuses on equitable treatment of PWDs in terms of health, education, employment, political and civil rights, accessibility, and auxiliary social services. He also explained the Accessibility Law (R.A. No. 344), the PDAO Law (R.A. No. 10070), and Equal Opportunity for Employment (R.A. No 10524), PWD benefits and privileges (R.A. No 9442 and R.A. No 10754), Mandatory PhilHealth Coverage (R.A. No 11228), the National Integrated Cancer Control Act (R.A. No 11215), and the Rare Disease Act (R.A No. 10747).

 Following that, Ms. Delfina J. Baquir and Atty. Alava, toured the delegates to the various offices within the NCDA, all the way up to the Executive Director's Office.

 

 From NCDA, the delegates then proceeded to visit RBI where Executive Director Amelia Torrente, welcomed them and mentioned that they prepared a short program about the RBI's mission, vision, and goals for them to have a better understanding of RBI dynamics and programs.

 

 Ms. Lorinda Ang, Head of Resource Development, talked about core values, SIGHT ( Service, Inclusion, God-centered, Holistic, and Training ), as well as their vision and mission, which focused on enabling people with visual impairments to attain their full potential in life adding that the RBI programs such as Education, Eye Services, Social Inclusion, and Special Projects.

 

 Ms. Loreta Barboza, Media Production Head/Chief Brailist, discussed RBI's projects namely Going Beyond Reading and Nivea Project where she highlighted the importance of the Braille System to all visually impaired individuals which will allow them to read as fast as sighted people, develop and improve their spelling abilities, and offer access to knowledge and information.

 

 Higher Education and Employment of Persons with Visual Impairment was discussed by RBI Project Officer Marlo Lucas in which he shared that there are blind people who work as software engineers, teachers, lecturers, managers, and entrepreneurs. He also said that the RBI offers computer training, college preparation training, and computer loans to college students.

 

 Mr. Apollo Pinos, Media Production Staff, explained the Siloam – RBI Mobile Library for Android and Mac users. He presented the operation of the mobile library and stated that this mobile library would help visually impaired people in accessing various information for free.

 According to Dr. Jasmine Samonte-Dean, Resident Optometrist of RBI, there is a common misconception regarding having poor eyesight wherein she defined poor vision as having visual functional impairment even after therapy and/or conventional refractive correction and having a visual acuity of less than 6/18 to light perception or a visual field of fewer than 10 degrees from the point of fixation. She also talked about refractive defects including myopia, astigmatism, and hypermetropia in her topic on eye care/low vision services via Zoom video conference.

 

 Finally, Head of Administration and Human Resources Marieta Regala imparted information on RBI's Bookshare and E-library, that it is the greatest library of accessible literature for the blind. And it is open to those with vision impairments as well as those with reading perceptual or physical disabilities that impede their ability to read written materials.

 Regional Program Coordinator Delfina J. Baquir was in charge of the orientation, with forty-nine (49) PWD advocates who joined the activity. (JKRebutazo and MCPSioco) 

 
 
 Facilities inside the NCDA. Library (left), Executive Director's Office (middle), and Broadcast Studio Room (right) 
 Sample Braille Books and Globe with Braille 
 Eye Equipment 
 Delegates of the Lakbay-Aral Program.

----- DOC | Job Fair 2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/19/job-fair-2023/ | 2023-04-19 -----
Calling all the graduating students and graduates! 

 Here is your opportunity to Find Your Dream Career! 

 
 The Office of Student Affairs and Services is inviting you to a Job Fair activity on May 18, 2023, from 8:00am to 5:00pm, at CvSU International Convention Center (ICON). 

 Participants must be registered through this link: 

 https://forms.gle/eRtkn71MdAUiZids6 

 
 Come in business/corporate attire and bring copies of curriculum vitae/resumes. 

 
 Get the Job, be hired! 

 For more details, you may reach your College Placement Coordinator.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts Solo Parenting 101 webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/04/gadrc-conducts-solo-parenting-101-webinar/ | 2023-04-04 -----
In pursuit of promoting awareness and disseminating information regarding parenting tips, laws, and benefits for single parents, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) sponsored a webinar entitled “ Single Parents 101: Single Parent and Positive Parenting ” for academic and non-academic personnel, students, parents and external clients held via Zoom and Facebook Live on April 4, 2023.

 The center initiated the event as part of its continuous campaign for inclusive awareness through concise discussion of laws and programs intended for single parents and to support their mental health welfare with adaptive mechanisms and parenting tips.

 GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan officially commenced the program with a message from University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles followed by the presentation of program objectives, activities, and house rules by GADRC Training Coordinator Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo.

 

 Ms. Darylvy R. Avila, an active Social Worker, and a current CAS Faculty Member, kickstarted the webinar proper with a simplified discussion of the Expanded Solo Parent's Welfare Act or Republic Act No. 11861, emphasizing the main points and common causes of confusion on the said law.

 
 

 As a way of keeping everyone's mental health in check, Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) Assistant Professor and Head of Career and Job Placement Services and Student Discipline Office, Mr. Gino A. Cabrera followed suit with the Emotional and Mental Health Balance for the Solo Parent talk, introducing the concept of ' work-life integration' as well.

 

 
 The concept was further elucidated as San Lorenzo Ruiz I, Dasmariñas City VAWC Desk Officer Danielle Saique, a Registered Social Worker, ended the webinar proper with her discussion of Positive Solo Parenting with tips outlined in United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)'s campaign for solo parents.

 In-charge of the Ceremonies Mr. Leonard V. Paunil accommodated a few questions from the attendees before awarding the Certificates of Appreciation to the three resource speakers. University's Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga concluded the webinar with his closing remarks. (MAGalvez and MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Q1 new international, local partnerships | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/03/q1-new-international-local-partnerships/ | 2023-04-03 -----
The University has established a total of five (5) collaborations with different new partners during the first quarter of 2023 through the signing of the memorandum of understanding and agreement (MOU/MOA).

 Local partnerships established through MOA signing include the collaboration with the City of Dasmariñas for the establishment of CvSU Learning Center – Dasmariñas, the partnership of CvSU – Silang Campus with the Municipality of Silang for the former's extension program on mental health, and the involvement of CvSU in the Consortium of Distance Education Providers of the Philippines (CODEPP) for the promotion of distance education and as an official founding member of the consortium.

 The University also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network and with an international partner, Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (KAHE), based in India.

 The said partners are set to collaborate with the university in maintaining the quality of education provided to the students and help the community in addressing social issues through research and extension activities.

----- DOC | CvSU-Main closes Q1 of 2023 with 15 benchmarking visits | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/03/cvsu-main-closes-q1-of-2023-with-15-benchmarking-visits/ | 2023-04-03 -----
Closing the first quarter of 2023, the University has successfully concluded several benchmarking activities conducted by a total of fifteen (15) higher education institutions (HEIs) from different parts of the country.

 “ The time for competition is over, the time for collaboration is required because, over the long term, competition will not come from within the country anymore ”, Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Chairperson J. Prospero E. De Vera III reiterated in his message during the 117th Founding Anniversary of Cavite State University about how collaboration through benchmarking activities among SUCs, LUCs, and private schools will achieve the internationalization of higher education in the Philippines.

 The following HEIs explored the best practices of the University in the fields of gender and development, research and extension projects/programs, and instruction:

 
 Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System Regulatory Office

 Bicol University -Doctor of Veterinary Medicine

 Concepcion Holy Cross College, Inc.

 Sorsogon State University

 Mountain Province State Polytechnic College

 University of the Philippines- Los Baños (CAFS)

 Philippine National Police Academy

 DOST- Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI)

 Bulacan State University

 Central Luzon State University-Research Center

 University of the Philippines- Los Baños -TTBDO

 Davao Oriental State University

 Bohol Island State University

 UP Los Baños- College of Forestry and Natural Resources

 Bicol University-Guinobatan Campus

----- DOC | NRCP confers National Achievement Award to VP Talactac | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/04/03/nrcp-confers-national-achievement-award-to-vp-talactac/ | 2023-04-03 -----
The Vice President for Research and Extension, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, was conferred with the 2022 National Achievement Award in the Veterinary Medicine Division by the National Research Council of the Philippines (NRCP) on 10 March 2023.

 The awarding was held during the 2023 NRCP Annual Scientific Conference and 90th General Membership Assembly at the Philippine International Convention Center (PICC), Pasay City on 10-11 March 2023 with the theme “ Science and Governance: Shaping Policies Towards a VUCAD2 (Visionary, Understandable, Clear, Agile, Digital, Diverse) Future ”.

 With Dr. Talactac were CvSU faculty members who also attended the said conference/assembly composed of Dr. Jonathan R. Digma, Dr. Agnes B. Alimboyuguen, Dr. Jerico B. Tadeo, Prof. Lawrence D. Mendoza, and Mr. Kenneth J. Enrico.

 NRCP also bestowed the 2022 NRCP Member Emeritus Award and 2022 Outstanding Institution Award to deserving professionals and institutions in the awarding ceremony.

 As an attached agency to the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), NRCP acknowledges associate and regular members composed of researchers, scientists, engineers, and technologists in all fields of science, including the social sciences and humanities, and its awards are based on the evaluation of the productivity and quality of scholarly work done for the country and are meant to inspire excellence among young academics, researchers, artists, and scientists in their chosen fields.

----- DOC | GAD advocates join forces at Regional Women's Month Celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/gad-advocates-join-forces-at-regional-womens-month-celebration/ | 2023-03-31 -----
The CALABARZON Regional Gender and Development Committee (RGADC) led the way in recognizing women in various roles and their contributions to the region's success and development during the 2023 Regional Women's Month Celebration, March 31, at the Cultural Center of Laguna in Santa Cruz, Laguna. 

 This annual event emphasized this year's theme, “WE for Gender Equality and Inclusive Society,” and subtheme, “Creating WE Opportunities in Science, Technology, and Innovation,” showcasing women and everyone in the disciplines of Science, Technology, and Innovation (STI). 

 National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) IV-A Assistant Regional Director Ms. Carmela P. Matabang imparted her welcoming message where she discussed how the government addresses different issues affecting women, particularly those who had been abused. 

 Province of Laguna Provincial Human Resource Management Officer Ms. Leah Teresa R. Javier expressed her gratitude for the momentous event while sharing her goal to build a society with equal rights and opportunities for women. 

 NEDA IV-A Secretary Mr. Marlon T. Natividad presented an overview of the forum and acknowledged the participants. In her keynote address, Department of Science and Technology (DOST) Region IV-A Assistant Regional Director for Finance and Administrative Services Ms. Lyn A. Fernandez acknowledged women who, despite obstacles, contribute to the advancement of science and technology. She also urged everyone to support women in science and technology in order to expand their prospects. 

 The event also held a talk show with successful women, including Laguna 2 nd District Rep. Ruth Mariano-Hernandez, Dr. Eden C. Callo of Laguna State Polytechnic University, Ms. Leonie Reyes of Natures Dew Enterprise, and Dr. Patricia Sanchez of the University of the Philippines Los Baños. They recounted their experiences overcoming difficulties and challenges, lessons that helped them achieve their present success, and knowledge that might benefit other women. 

 RGADC Co-Chairperson Ms. Josephine C. Parilla extended her appreciation to all the participants. She also led the turnover ceremony for the gathering's next in-charge, from Laguna State Polytechnic University to Batangas State University. 

 NEDA IV-A Assistant Regional Director Ms. Carmela P. Matabang imparting her welcome message. 
 NEDA IV-A Secretary Mr. Marlon T. Natividad discussing the overview of the forum. 
 Province of Laguna Provincial Human Resource Management Officer Ms. Leah Teresa R. Javier during her welcome message 
 DOST Region IV-A Assistant Regional Director for Finance and Administrative Services Ms. Lyn A. Fernandez delivering the keynote message. 
 During the talk show with (from left to right) Dr. Patricia Sanchez, Ms. Leonie Reyes, Rep. Ruth Mariano-Hernandez, and Dr. Eden Callo. 
 RGADC Co-Chairperson Ms. Josephine C. Parilla for the closing remarks 
 Awarding of certificates

----- DOC | SHINE: CvSU marks 117th founding anniversary and 25th year as a university | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/30/shine-cvsu-marks-117th-founding-anniversary-and-25th-year-as-a-university/ | 2023-03-30 -----
Celebrating its 117 years of foundation and 25 years of existence as a university, Cavite State University executed a weeklong celebration from March 20 to 24, 2023 recollecting its humble beginnings, recognizing the men and women behind its accomplishments, and appreciating partners that have supported the university in its journey.

 Bearing the theme “ SHINE CvSU: Tiwala at Malasakit sa Isa't-Isa para sa mas Maningning na CvSU” , the University kickstarted its weeklong celebration on 20 March 2023 with a Welcome Street Dance performed by CvSU students.

 A wreath-laying and flower-offering ceremony at the statue of the late Don Severino Delas Alas was also held and graced by his heirs with the CvSU executive and administrative council members.

 University President Hernando D. Robles quoted in his opening remarks to remember the contribution of Don Binoy in education and government sectors and that the ceremony is an expression of thanksgiving and remembrance of his notable contribution to the university and the community.

 The wreath laying was followed by an ecumenical thanksgiving service held at CvSU International Convention Center and an opening ceremony that signals the official start of the weeklong celebration.

----- DOC | First-ever CvSU PRAISE Award recognizes employees' excellent service | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/30/first-ever-cvsu-praise-award-recognizes-employees-excellent-service/ | 2023-03-30 -----
In conjunction with the university's celebration of 117th founding anniversary and 25th year as a university, CvSU accorded the awardees of the first-ever Program on Awards and Incentives for Service Excellence (PRAISE) Awards during the Gawad Laya't Diwa: Gabi ng Parangal on the night of 20 March 2023, graced by Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Commissioner Marita R. Canapi as the geust speaker.

 Commissioner Canapi cited in her speech that the founding anniversary of the University is a celebration of 117 years of working together of the men and women of CvSU to achieve where it is today and the occasion is a celebration of empowering students to become good citizens of the country, nurturing the country, and a thanksgiving day for all the triumphs of CvSU over the past years.

 Named as the Administrator of the Year or Gabay ng CvSU awardee was Prof. Noel A. Sedigo who is currently serving as the Campus Administrator of CvSU Trece Martirez Campus.

 Model Emplyee of the Year or Galing ng CvSU awardee is the current dean of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resoures (CAFENR), Dr. Adolfo C. Manue who also served as the Director for Institutional Development Office (IDO) prior to his deanship.

 Prof. Michele T. Bono, the program leader of the CvSU Bee Research, Innovation, Trade, and Extension (BRITE) Center or formerly known as CvSU Bee Program, and faculty member at the Department of Biological Sciences received the Tagapag-ugnay ng CvSU or Extensionist of the Year Award.

 Husay ng CvSU Award was conferred to the College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) as the best organizational unit received by Dean Famela Iza Cabe-Matic and Pinakamaayos na Yunit ng CvSU Award was accorded to the Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) for being the most organized unit in the university received by Dean Sharon M. Isip.

 The said award's night recognized the men and women behind the milestones and success stories of the university such as loyalty and service awardees and PRAISE awardees who received a plaque of recognition and a cash reward.

----- DOC | Orientation on Localization of the Magna Carta of Women, Gender Sensitivity, and Use of Gender-Fair Language | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/30/orientation-on-localization-of-the-magna-carta-of-women-gender-sensitivity-and-use-of-gender-fair-language/ | 2023-03-30 -----
As part of mainstreaming gender and development in their organization, the City Government of Trece Martires successfully conducted a two-day orientation on the Localization of the Magna Carta of Women, Gender Sensitivity, and Use of Gender-Fair Language in partnership with Cavite State University-Gender and Development Resource Center (CvSU-GADRC).

 The two-day orientation, held at The Bayleaf Hotel, General Trias Cavite and conducted twice from 27 to 30 March 2023, aims to empower city employees on gender sensitivity and to raise their awareness on gender and women's issues and concerns. Ms. Girlie R. Lubigan, OIC-HRMO of Trece Martires City delivered the welcome remarks for the first batch of attendees of the activity on 27 March 2023 composed of 15 male and 30 female participants.

 Discussions about the localization of the Magna Carta of Women through ownership of the law by women from all walks of life such as protection from violence, protection and needs in times of disaster, calamities, and other crises were the highlight of the first two days of the activity. Gender mainstreaming and Gender Sensitivity Orientation were also discussed by Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator of CvSU Cavite City Campus.

 Moreover, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation of CvSU GADRC emphasized that communication is essential in all organizations, and government/private offices in her talk about the use of the Gender-Fair Language.

 On the other hand, Atty. Ma. Jeanette B. Tolentino, City Administrator of Trece Martires LGU, delivered the welcome remarks to the second batch of participants on March 29, 2023, consisting of 17 male and 29 female participants.

 In the second session, Mr. Agreda added the salient provisions in the Localization of the Magna Carta of Women topic such as women's rights are human rights, equal employment opportunities, women in the military, special leave privileges, gender and development (GAD) budget, and other laws protecting women and children and Gender Mainstreaming. Meanwhile, Ms. Estebat talked about Gender sensitivity defining it as the ability to recognize gender issues, women's different perceptions and interests arising from their different social locations, and different gender roles.

 On the last day of the activity, Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, CvSU MOVE KATROPA Trainer, explained the Use of Gender-Fair Language wherein she encouraged government employees and officials to make a concerted effort to eliminate discriminatory language directed at women and men, therefore promoting gender-sensitivity in the bureaucracy.

 Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, Training Coordinator of CvSU-GADRC facilitated the four–day orientation.  (JKRebutazo) 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat (left), Mr. King David J. Agreda (middle), and Ms. Arlene L. Estrada (right) led the orientation – workshop for the Trece Martires City Government Employees 
 
 Participants of the orientation. 1st batch (left) and 2nd batch (right) 
 
 Distribution of certificates of the resource speakers. Ms. Raecel A. Estebat (left), Ms. Arlene L. Estrada (middle), and Mr. King David J. Agreda (right)

----- DOC | ADVISORY from the OFFICE OF THE UNIVERSITY REGISTRAR and CASHIER's OFFICE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/29/advisory-from-the-office-of-the-university-registrar-and-cashiers-office/ | 2023-03-29 -----
Please be informed that the University Registrar and Cashier's Office will NOT be accepting transactions on APRIL 4 and 5 to give way for system maintenance. Transactions will resume after the holy week. 

 Please be guided accordingly. 

 Thank you.

----- DOC | CvSU – IP TBM Platinum Awardee | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/29/cvsu-ip-tbm-platinum-awardee/ | 2023-03-29 -----
Cavite State University – Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management ( CvSU – IP TBM ) received a Platinum Award from the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL) during the ITSO President's Summit 2023 on March 28, 2023 at the Sequoia Hotel, Metro Manila.

----- DOC | Suspension of face-to-face classes on Holy Wednesday | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/29/suspension-of-face-to-face-classes-on-holy-wednesday/ | 2023-03-29 -----
Advisory on suspension of face-to-face classes across CvSU campuses on Holy Wednesday (April 5, 2023), as per OVPAA Memo No. 10 series of 2023. 

 
 In observance of the Lenten Season, faculty members are advised to conduct asynchronous classes during the abovementioned date to ensure continuous delivery of instruction.

----- DOC | Bicol University-Guinobatan Campus Benchmarking Activity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/29/bicol-university-guinobatan-campus-benchmarking-activity/ | 2023-03-29 -----
In preparation for the possible offering of BS Tourism, BS Environmental Engineering, and BS Development Communication in Bicol University-Guinobatan Campus, faculty members, headed by OIC-Dean Roscefe B. Dy, conducted a benchmarking activity in CvSU-Main Campus.

 
 They visited to learn the best practices and experiences of the University in offering the said and other related programs as they aspire to establish the said curricula at BU-Guinobatan.

 
 CvSU Officials headed by Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, VP for Planning and Development, and Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP for Academic Affairs, with Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel, Dean of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR) and key faculty members from CAFENR, CEIT, and CEd, welcomed the visitors and generously imparted their respective experiences and best practices about the said program offerings.

----- DOC | Our University Library is open to outside researchers every Thursday | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/29/our-university-library-is-open-to-outside-researchers-every-thursday/ | 2023-03-29 -----
𝗬𝗲𝗽! 𝗪𝗲 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗼𝗽𝗲𝗻 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗼𝘂𝘁𝘀𝗶𝗱𝗲 𝗿𝗲𝘀𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗰𝗵𝗲𝗿𝘀 𝗲𝘃𝗲𝗿𝘆 𝗧𝗵𝘂𝗿𝘀𝗱𝗮𝘆 

 Please present the following:

 
 Valid ID and;

 Referral Letter signed by the Librarian or Head of Office where you are currently enrolled /employed.

 
 To know more, please read the Library Rules and Regulations via https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/library-rules-and-regulations 

 
 #BringingTheLibraryToYou 

 #cvsulibrary 

 #CvsuMainLibrary 

 #CaviteLibrary 

 #CaviteStateUniversityLibrary

----- DOC | What Every Woman Should Know about Gynecologic and Breast Cancer | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/23/what-every-woman-should-know-about-gynecologic-and-breast-cancer/ | 2023-03-23 -----
In support of the National Women's Month Celebration and to raise awareness on Cancer Prevention, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a webinar entitled “ Webinar on What Every Woman Should Know about Gynecologic and Breast Cancer ” on March 23, 2023, via Zoom and Facebook Live.

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of the GADRC, delivered the welcome remarks on behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, expressing his gratitude to the center for organizing such a timely webinar to educate CvSU's clientele about gynecologic and breast cancer. Dr. Robles encouraged everyone to take advantage of this opportunity and to help disseminate cancer screening information and awareness. He also expressed appreciation to all the resource speakers and hoped for a fruitful webinar.

 

 Dr. Mae Florence Chia Hilario-Ferrolino, a College of Medicine (CoM) Faculty Member, discussed gynecologic cancer as any cancer that begins in a woman's reproductive organs and can be found in various locations inside the pelvis, a region beneath the stomach or belly and between the hip bones. According to Dr. Ferrolino, there are five forms of gynecologic cancer and stressed that ovarian, uterine, and cervical cancers are the most frequent cancer diseases among women. She explained that cervical cancer happens when abnormal cells inside the cervix proliferate in an unregulated way, forming tumors that can spread to other organs in the body. She also talked about endometrial cancer, which starts in the layers of cells that make up the uterine lining (endometrium); and ovarian cancer, which begins in the ovaries or associated parts of the fallopian tubes and the peritoneum. She also added the risk factors for ovarian cancer and its symptoms such as bloating, trouble eating, pelvic or stomach pain, frequent urination, feeling full after small meals, vaginal discharge, irregular vaginal bleeding, and post-coital vaginal hemorrhage.

 

 Dr. Tiffany Irish E. Rentillo-Guilas, faculty member from CoM, talked about breast cancer emphasizing the importance of its early detection in saving lives. She enumerated breast cancer signs such as changes in the appearance and texture of the breast ( redness, lump in the breast, swelling, lump in the armpit, orange-peel texture, and dimpling ) and nipple changes ( discharge, pulling in, change in direction, ulcer, and scaliness ). Breast cancer screening was also discussed, which includes a doctor-assisted or self-assessed breast exam and imaging ( a mammogram, a breast ultrasound, and a breast MRI ). Furthermore, Dr. Guilas explained how to perform self-assessment, which should be done 7-10 days after the menstrual cycle by monitoring the breast appearance and touching or assessing the breast. The breast can be assessed using circles, wedges, and/or lines. She recommended seeing a doctor about the unique risks of breast cancer and adopting a healthy lifestyle.

 On the other hand, the winners of the TikTok Contest out of eight (8) entries received by the GADRC were also announced during the webinar. The third place was awarded to CvSU CCAT Campus with an average score of 82.80%, the second place was awarded to Tourism Students Association with an average score of 84.91%, and the first place was awarded to CSPEAR Performing Arts Troupe with an average of 89.96%.

 

 

  

 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean of the College of Medicine, stated in her closing message that the webinar is extremely relevant, with the themes covering the most frequent causes of illness and death in the country today. She also emphasized the significance of screening and early detection and urged participants not to be frightened to present themselves early enough for the diagnosis of disorders connected to gynecologic and breast cancer.

  

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Alternate, CvSU Carmona Campus served as moderator for this activity. (MCPSioco) 

  

 The participants of the webinar on What Every Woman Should Know about Gynecologic and Breast Cancer. 
 The participants of the webinar on What Every Woman Should Know about Gynecologic and Breast Cancer.

----- DOC | Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/09/ceremonial-memorandum-of-understanding-signing-between-cavite-state-university-and-filipino-nursing-diaspora-find-network/ | 2023-03-21 -----
Ceremonial Memorandum of Understanding signing between Cavite State University and Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network. 

 The MOU was signed by President Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Violeta A. Lopez, President of FiND Network, with College of Nursing (CoN) Dean Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo as witness. 

 The activity was also attended by VP Camilo A. Polinga of Administrative and Support Services, VP Lolita G. Herrera of Business and Resource Generation, VP Mary Jane D. Tepora of Planning and Development, ILCLO Director Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, PACO Director Adora Joy T. Plete, and CoN Academic Council members.

----- DOC | Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/08/01/quacquarelli-symonds-qs/ | 2023-03-18 -----
Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), a British company specializing in analyzing higher education institutions worldwide, rated 𝘾𝙫𝙎𝙐 𝙖 3-𝙨𝙩𝙖𝙧 𝙐𝙣𝙞𝙫𝙚𝙧𝙨𝙞𝙩𝙮.

 “A university with a Three Star rating is well-recognised nationally and may have also begun to attract international recognition. This institution maintains a reputable level of teaching and its graduates are attractive to employers.

 These institutions show potential in achieving international education standards and undertake complex research activities, experimenting with pedagogical teaching. The performance of such institutions is considered Good in the QS Stars rating system.”

 Cavite State University is grateful to the Commission on Higher Education for the subsidy in international rating and benchmarking of institutions using internationalization metrics as provided by QS Stars Rating System under the Fostering World Class Universities Project.

 Most of all, the University acknowledges its students, faculty, employees, and the rest of the CvSU community for being its partners in the journey to becoming a global university.

 The five-star rating on inclusiveness and social responsibility; four stars in teaching, academic development, and facilities; and three stars in employability and specialist criteria are the results of CvSU's continuous efforts to become globally-competitive and world class.

----- DOC | MOU Signing between CvSU and Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (KAHE) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/14/mou-signing-between-cvsu-and-karpagam-academy-of-higher-education-kahe/ | 2023-03-14 -----
Cavite State University has established a new international partnership with Karpagam Academy of Higher Education (KAHE), based in India, through a virtual ceremony of Memorandum of Understanding signing.

 Dr. Venkatachalapathy, Vice Chancellor of KAHE and Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, representing President Hernando D. Robles, signed the MOU.

 The activity was also virtually attended by Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean of College of Arts and Sciences; Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, VP for Planning and Development; and Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director of International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office.

----- DOC | CvSU celebrates Women's Month through Magna Carta of Women webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/09/cvsu-celebrates-womens-month-through-magna-carta-of-women-webinar/ | 2023-03-09 -----
In observance of the celebration of National Women's Month, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully facilitated a webinar titled The Magna Carta of Women: Knowing Your Rights! on March 9, 2023, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live which aims to impart knowledge on women's rights with regards to the guidelines on availing of leaves, paid breaks appreciate the importance of gender mainstreaming, and support the advocacy towards gender equality and gender-responsive university.

 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President stated in his opening remarks that this year's focus for Women's Month is embracing equity, training women in digital innovation, and implementing equitable opportunity. He mentioned that women were treated before as people who usually perform housework, but today, they are offered equal opportunities to showcase their potential, demonstrate what they have, and contribute to the growth of our society and country. He said that today's webinar is about the statute that protects women's rights in the workplace, in the community, and in society and hoped that everyone would consider this and would pay attention to women's rights and emphasized that we are all equal and that everyone should respect one another regardless of their gender.

 

 Ms. Narriza D. Cruz, Senior Human Resource Specialist of Civil Service Commission Region IV—Field Office-Cavite, provided an overview of the Magna Carta of Women (R.A. No. 9710), a comprehensive women's human rights law that aims to eliminate discrimination by recognizing, protecting, fulfilling, and promoting the rights of Filipino women, particularly those from marginalized groups

 She discussed the rights of women guaranteed under the Magna Carta of Women such as protection from all forms of violence; protection and security in times of disaster, calamities, and other crises; participation and representation, equal treatment, equal access and elimination of discrimination against women in education, scholarships, and training; equal participation in sports; and non-discrimination in employment.

 Ms. Cruz also enumerated the procedures for obtaining special leave benefits for women under RA 9710. She emphasized that every female public sector employee, regardless of age or civil status, is entitled to a special leave of up to two weeks with full pay based on her gross monthly salary. She also stated that special leave may be used for any gynecological illness needing surgery for a maximum of two months per year.

 On the other hand, the winners of the PicTula Making Contest out of seventy-eight (78) entries received by the GADRC were also announced during the webinar. Syrus Dimaranan of the College of Sports and Physical Education and Recreation (CSPEAR) won third place with an average score of 85.00%, the second place was awarded to Kenneth M. Monteverde and John Rickie O'Niell P. Roma of the College of Education with an average score of 87.00%, and the first place winner is Dan Louise Christian D. Ardemer of the Carmona Campus with an average of 89.67%.

 

 

 Ms. Abigail Cruz, on behalf of HRDO Director Eileen I. Cubillo, expressed her appreciation to the resource speakers and webinar participants. She hoped that participants would communicate the information they learned to others so that female employees would be aware of their rights. She also expressed gratitude to the GADRC for consistently organizing and conducting webinars and seminars aimed at empowering women.

 
 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, GAD Alternate, CvSU Carmona Campus served as moderator for this activity. (MCPSioco) 

 The participants of the webinar on the Magna Carta of Women Knowing Your Rights

----- DOC | Application for college admission for 1st semester, A.Y. 2023-2024 in CvSU Learning Center- City of Dasmariñas Campus is NOW OPEN! | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/02/application-for-college-admission-for-1st-semester-a-y-2023-2024-in-cvsu-learning-center-city-of-dasmarinas-campus-is-now-open/ | 2023-03-02 -----
Application for college admission for 1st semester, A.Y. 2023-2024 in CvSU Learning Center- City of Dasmariñas Campus is NOW OPEN!

 
 The ONLINE Application period is from March 02 to April 14, 2023.

 Please be guided on the procedure and requirements for both onsite and online applications through the photos below.

----- DOC | CvSU establishes learning center in Dasma; launches Bacoor City Campus extension | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/02/cvsu-establishes-learning-center-in-dasma-launches-bacoor-city-campus-extension/ | 2023-03-02 -----
In line with its persistent quest to produce globally competitive individuals through providing access to quality education, Cavite State University has officially opened its new door to achieve its mission by establishing the CvSU Learning Center-Dasmariñas City Campus, sealed through a Memorandum of Agreement signing in the City Government of Dasmariñas on 27 February 2023.

 The agreement was signed by University President Hernando D. Robles and Dasmariñas City Mayor Jenny Barzaga with CvSU Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, and City Tourism and Information Officer Read Alano as witnesses.

 Other CvSU officials also graced the ceremony composed of VP Melbourne R. Talactac, VP Camilo A. Polinga, Center Administrator Gemma S. Legaspi, Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida, Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO), and Prof Adora Joy T. Plete, Director for Public Affairs and Communications Office (PACO).

 Set to deliver a variety of academic programs and courses this year, CvSU Learning Center is now accepting applicants from 02 March to 14 April 2023 for college admission exclusive for incoming freshmen for the first semester of the Academic Year 2023-2024, and has released the procedures and requirements for online and onsite application.

 On the other hand, with the same endeavor of making quality education accessible to the community, the CvSU-Bacoor City Campus has launched its campus extension located at Niog II, Bacoor City on 02 March 2023.

 The launching was graced by Bacoor City Mayor Strike B. Revilla with Vice Mayor Rowena B. Mendiola and CvSU key officials headed by Dr. Robles with VP Lolita G. Herrera, VP Talactac, VP Nuestro, VP Polinga, former Bacoor Campus Administrator, Prof. Menvyluz Macalalad and newly designated Administrator, Prof. Ronan M. Cajigal.

----- DOC | My Pulpol Love: A Webinar on Preventing Early Pregnancy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/23/my-pulpol-love-a-webinar-on-preventing-early-pregnancy/ | 2023-02-23 -----
Cavite State University Gender and Development Resource Center conducted a webinar entitled My Pulpol Love: A Webinar on Preventing Early Pregnancy held on February 23, 2023, via video conferencing and Facebook live.

 On behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director delivered the opening message of the webinar. Followed by the discussion of the Objectives, Program Flow, and House Rules of the activity presented by Ms. Janeal Krayjn Rebutazo, GADRC Training Coordinator.

 

 Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, Secretary of MOVE KATROPA. discussed the topic of Crush Landing Sureball ka na ba? Attraction, Dating, and Courtship Online Courtship where he mentioned four (4) factors that may influence attraction including physical attractiveness, similarity, proximity, and reciprocity. He emphasized that courtship entails the purpose of getting married and that being in a relationship is a serious matter. In his presentation, Mr. Paunil outlined the four stages of dating relationships such as the first meeting or attraction, curiosity, interest and infatuation, enlightenment and becoming a couple, and commitment or engagement. He also discussed online courtship and emphasized that the development of technology has made us considerably more casual about interpersonal interactions.

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, President of MOVE KATROPA, discussed the topic entitled I'm Too Sexy (Responsible Sex): Relationship Boundaries. Mr. Agreda began the discussion by defining a boundary and explained its four types in a relationship: financial, intellectual, emotional, and sexual. He emphasized that boundaries are personal and flexible and highlighted that engaging in sexual behavior at a young age is risky and that once you do it, you stand to lose far more than gain.

 

 Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, CvSU MOVE KATROPA Trainer, talked about the topic Napakasakit M.U… Walang Tayo… Pusong Nagdurugo: Early Signs of an Unhealthy Relationship . According to Ms. Perez, red flags in a relationship include control, dishonesty, disrespect, dependence, and violence. She highlighted the various forms of abuse, unhealthy relationships, and how to manage early warning signs.

 
 

 The power couple, Mr. King David J. Agreda and Ms. Regine Azereth T. Agreda also talked about Kasal o Kasal-kasalan: Engagement and Wedding. They presented a brief video about their love journey. According to them, an engagement is a period before marriage, beginning with the decision to marry and ending with the wedding ceremony itself. They also cited that marriage is one of the oldest social institutions in history they discussed the indicators of a healthy partnership.

 
 Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of, the College of Nursing delivered the closing remarks, expressing her gratitude to the Gender and Development Resource Center for organizing an informative webinar. She also extended her appreciation to the resource speakers and hoped that everyone benefitted from their knowledge. (MDPAlmarez) 

 The participants of the My Pulpol Love: A Webinar on Preventing Early Pregnancy

----- DOC | PHDR appoints new set of university officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/15/phdr-appoints-new-set-of-university-officials/ | 2023-02-15 -----
University President Hernando D. Robles has designated new set of university officials by virtue of Board Resolution No. 9 series of 2023, effective 13 February 2023. Some of the former designees retained their posts while others were replaced or transferred to another office/unit/college. The new set of the administrative council will be serving their designation until 06 October 2024.

  

 
 
 
 VICE PRESIDENTS 

 
 Name 
 Position 

 
 1.    Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro 
 Academic Affairs 

 
 2.    Dr. Camilo A. Polinga 
 Administrative and Support Services 

 
 3.    Ms. Lolita G. Herrera 
 Business and Resource Generation 

 
 4.    Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora 
 Planning and Development 

 
 5.    Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac 
 Research and Extension 

 
 DEANS 

 
 6.    Dr. Adolfo A. Manuel Jr. 
 Dean, College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources 

 
 7.    Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan 
 Dean, College of Arts and Sciences 

 
 8.    Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer 
 Dean, College of Education 

 
 9.    Dr. Maria Soledad M. Lising 
 Dean, College of Economics, Management and Development Studies 

 
 10.  Dr. Willies C. Buclatin 
 Dean, College of Engineering and Information Technology 

 
 11.  Dr. Evelyn M. del Mundo 
 Dean, College of Nursing 

 
 12.  Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez 
 Dean, College of Medicine 

 
 13.  Prof. Ronnel P. Cuachin 
 Dean, College of Sports, Physical, Education and Recreation 

 
 14.  Dr. Rezin C. Bahia 
 Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 

 
 15.  Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz 
 Dean, Graduate School and Open Learning College 

 
 16.  Dr. Famela Iza C. Matic 
 Dean, College of Criminal Justice 

 
 SATELLITE CAMPUS ADMINISTRATORS 

 
 17.  Prof. Ronan M. Cajigal 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Bacoor Campus 

 
 18.  Prof. Ma. Cristina J. Baesa 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Cavite City Campus 

 
 19.  Dr. Jenny Beb F. Espineli 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Imus Campus 

 
 20.  Dr. Jocelyn L. Reyes 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Silang Campus 

 
 21.  Dr. Cristina M. Signo 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Carmona Campus 

 
 22.  Dr. Lauro B. Pascua 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Rosario Campus 

 
 23.  Prof. John Xavier Nepomuceno 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Naic Campus 

 
 24.  Prof. Marilou P. Luseco 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Gen. Trias Campus 

 
 25.  Dr. Tita C. Lopez 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Tanza Campus 

 
 26.  Prof. Noel A. Sedigo 
 Campus Administrator, CvSU Trece Martires City Campus 

 
 27.  Dr. Gemma S. Legaspi 
 Center Administrator, CvSU Learning Center-Dasmariñas City 

 
 28.  Dr. Jonathan R. Digma 
 Principal, CvSU Maragondon Campus 

 
 OFFICE DIRECTORS 

 
 29.  Prof. Analiza R. Mojica 
 Director, Sports 

 
 30.  Ms. Edwina O. Roderos 
 University Registrar 

 
 31.  Ms. Sharon M. Isip 
 Dean, Office of the Student Affairs and Services 

 
 32.  Ms. Princess N. Roderno 
 Head, University Library 

 
 33.  Dr. Patrick Glenn C. Ilano 
 Manager, Hostel Tropicana 

 
 34.  Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar 
 Director, Research Center 

 
 35.  Dr. Almira G. Magcawas 
 Director, Extension 

 
 36.  Dr. Agnes C. Francisco 
 Director, Knowledge, Management Center 

 
 37.  Mr. Vernon C. Costa 
 Director, Business Affairs and Resource Generation 

 
 38.  Dr. Maria Corazon A. Buena 
 Director, Production and Marketing 

 
 39.  Engr. Rosalie A. Pelle 
 Director, Administration 

 
 40.  Ms. Eileen I. Cubillo 
 Director, Human Resource Development Office 

 
 41.  Ms. Asuncion R. Reyes 
 Director, Finance Management Office 

 
 42.  Dr. Romeo M. Sanchez 
 Director, Health Services 

 
 43.  Mr. Romulo L. Gomez 
 Director, Civil Security Services 

 
 44.  Prof. Danielito R. Escaño 
 Director, Physical Plant Services 

 
 45.  Engr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes 
 Director, Planning Office (Planning and Development Office) 

 
 46.  Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero 
 Director, Institutional Development Office 

 
 47.  Ms. Catherine J Quiñones 
 Director, Presidential Management Coordinating Office 

 
 48.  Dr. Susan G. Tan 
 Director, Gender and Development 

 
 49.  Prof. Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida 
 Director, International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office 

 
 50.  Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete 
 Director, Public Affairs and Communications Office 

 
 51.  Prof. Roderick M. Rupido 
 Director, Alumni Affairs 

 
 52.  Dr. Hosea dL. Matel 
 Director, Macapuno Research and Development Center 

 
 53.  Engr. Gerry M. Castillo 
 Director, National Coffee Research and Extension Center 

 
 54.  Prof. Junser P. Magpantay 
 Director, Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade Center/Pollution Control Officer 

 
 55.  Dr. Elizabeth E. Polinga 
 Manager, Agri-Eco Tourism Park

----- DOC | Hornets Badminton Team nabs 1st and 2nd places in national badminton tournament | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/15/hornets-badminton-team-nabs-1st-and-2nd-places-in-national-badminton-tournament/ | 2023-02-15 -----
The CvSU Hornets Badminton Team victoriously competed and nabbed the 1st and 2nd places in the recently concluded 6th National Student Badminton Championship (NSBC) organized by the Federation of School Sports Association of the Philippines (FESSAP) in collaboration with Bataan Peninsula State University (BPSU) on 11-12 February 2023.

 Ms. Rhealyn D. Villar, a fourth-year BSIT student, secured the 1st spot in the women's division of the championship followed by Ms. Allysa L. Laylo, third-year BS Accountancy student who placed second. Meanwhile, Mr. Mark Arman D. Rimas, a first-year BSBM student, also bagged second place in the men's division.

 The CvSU student-athletes sent in the said national competition was coached by Mr. Ferdie C. Andulan- Head Coach, with Mr. Kevin C. Ylanan-Assistant Coach, and University Sports Director Analiza R. Mojica.

 Hosted by BPSU at Bataan Youth Center, Balanga City, Bataan Province, the 6th National Student Badminton and Table Tennis Championships were conducted in search of the top 2 student-athletes from men's and women's divisions to represent the Philippines in the 31st Summer World University Games, a sports competition organized by the International University Sports Federation (FISU), set to happen on July 27 to August 8, 2023, in Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China.

----- DOC | GADRC facilitates a workshop on Preparation of the GMEF MOVs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/gadrc-facilitates-a-workshop-on-preparation-of-the-gmef-movs/ | 2023-02-02 -----
Aiming to demonstrate the use of the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF) in assessing the extent of each campus', college's, or unit's gender mainstreaming efforts and identify areas for improvement, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center held a workshop on the preparation of the GMEF Means of Verification (MOVs) on February 1-2, 2023, at the Babaylan Training Room, GADRC.

 On the first day of the workshop, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC In-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, discussed the Orientation on the Preparation of GMEF MOVs. She mainly highlighted the four (4) Entry Points of GMEF; Policy, People, Enabling Mechanism, and Projects/Activities/Programs (PAPs); and also discussed the Levels of Gender Mainstreaming.

 Ms. Estebat explained that the GMEF has a total of 93 descriptors and has a scoring option determined by ' No ', ' Partly Yes' , and ' Yes '. She also emphasized each descriptor should be supported by means of verification for validation of the scores.

 During the discussion, Ms. Estebat gently reminded the participants to be mindful of understanding what each descriptor is looking for to avoid the misplacement of MOVs and she provided samples of MOVs that the participants can use to serve as their guide.

 The attendees proceeded with the preparation of their respective college/campus/units GMEF tables and its corresponding MOVs and uploaded them to the designated folders in google drive on the second day of the activity. (GCRSison) 

 Registration 
  

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat discussing the GMEF Entry Points. 
  

 Mr. Joselito F. Ersando sharing his experience in constructing the GMEF. 
  

 Ms. Estebat assisting Ms. Mary Antoniette D. Viray on making the GMEF during the second day of the workshop. 
  

 The participants of the workshop.

----- DOC | CvSU receives recognition awards from PRC, DA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/02/cvsu-receives-recognition-awards-from-prc-da/ | 2023-02-02 -----
Cavite State University received a Plaque of Recognition from the Professional Regulation Commission – Board for Professional Teachers for being among the top-performing schools (Secondary Level) in the October 2022 Licensure Examination for Teachers.

 The award was received by University President Hernando D. Robles together with CvSU-Cavite City Campus Administrator Cristina J. Baesa; CvSU-Imus Campus Administrator Marlon A. Mojica; and CvSU-Silang Campus Administrator Jocelyn L. Reyes during the Oathtaking Ceremonies of New Professional Teachers held at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay City on 29 January 2023.

 PRC Commissioner Erwin M. Enad, who served as the guest speaker, spoke about the values of education, struggles and challenges, teacher leadership, and ethics in the teaching practice.

 It can be recalled that Silang, Imus, and Cavite City campuses placed 7th, 8th, and 9th,respectively on the said LE as announced by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) on 16 December 2022.

 Moreover, recognizing its support to the National Urban and Peri-Urban Agriculture Program (NUPAP), the Cavite State University's Bee Program was also awarded by the Department of Agriculture – Bureau of Plant Industry (DA-BPI) with a Plaque of Appreciation on 19 January 2023.

 The award was given to applaud the technical assistance provided by CvSU Bee Program in strengthening collaboration and inspiring the society to adopt bee culture and bee farming.

----- DOC | No Helmet, No Entry Policy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/02/no-helmet-no-entry-policy/ | 2023-02-02 -----
ADVISORY: “NO HELMET, NO ENTRY POLICY” 

 

 
 Please be advised that the University shall strictly implement the “NO HELMET, NO ENTRY” policy effective 06 February 2023. 

 

 
 The said policy is in accordance to Republic Act 10054 also known as “Motorcycle Helmet Act of 2009”. 

 
 Section 3. Mandatory Use of Motorcycle Helmets. 

 

 All motorcycle riders, including drivers and back riders, shall at all times wear standard protective motorcycle helmets while driving, whether long or short drives, in any type of road and highway. 

 

 
 Please be guided accordingly. 

 

 
 #WearAHelmetForYourSafety

----- DOC | Main Campus, among the top-performing schools in Crim Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/01/26/main-campus-among-the-top-performing-schools-in-crim-licensure-exam/ | 2023-01-26 -----
Cavite State University-Main Campus was hailed among the top performing schools in the December 2022 Criminologist Licensure Examination administered by the Board of Criminology, announced by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) on 19 January 2023.

 With a passing percentage of 95.70%, the University placed 2nd with a total of 89 passers out of 93 takers, following Tarlac State University (TSU). Meanwhile the CvSU Bacoor Campus also nailed a 95% passing rate after 19 out of its 20 examinees successfully passed the said board exam.

 The December 2022 Criminologist Licensure Examination posted a national passing percentage of 33.14%.

----- DOC | Application for Admission to the Doctor of Medicine Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/01/25/application-for-admission-to-the-doctor-of-medicine-program/ | 2023-01-25 -----
Application for admission to the Doctor of Medicine program is now open for academic year 2023-2024. 

 
 Link to the online application form: https://forms.gle/zDkc84ysKFYPDdD47

----- DOC | GADRC conducts KASALI TAYO program's third consultative meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/09/gadrc-conducts-kasali-tayo-programs-third-consultative-meeting/ | 2023-01-19 -----
In connection with the proposed extension program of the University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) dubbed as “KAbalikat sa SAnayan at LIngap sa mga TAong nasa laylaYan ng lipunan tungo sa paglagO” (KASALI TAYO), another consultative meeting was conducted on 19 January 2023, via Zoom Video conferencing. 

 City and Municipal Social Welfare and Development (C/MSWD) Officers of Cavite City and Noveleta, Ms. Rowena Andrande and Ms. Jinky O. Sidocon along with the proponents of the different programs attended the said meeting wherein Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of the GADRC, discussed the KASALI TAYO Extension Program describing it as a collaborative and multisectoral effort that will focus on capacitating the marginalized sectors (people with disabilities, senior citizens, LGBTQIA+ people, and single parents). 

 She also added that the said extension program is a result of research which displayed the 'marginalized sectors' are the ones often left behind in terms of disaster risk reduction and management plans and mentioned the consultative meeting conducted with the representatives of the marginalized sector, PDRRMO, PPDAO, and PSWDO to substantiate the results of the research. 

 In addition, Director Tan said that Training Needs Assessment (TNA) and Community Needs Assessment (CNA) were also carried out in which additional needs that needed to be addressed such as livelihood, education, and health were identified by the thorough study of the assessments' results. 

 She further stated that the CvSU colleges and campuses that specialize in the said needs will address them and highlighted that the focus of the consultative meeting was to link the project proponents and C/MSWDOs to the information and data or statistics required by the program or project leaders. (MCPSioco) 

 
Noveleta MSWD Officer, Ms. Jinky O. Sidocon (left), and CSWD Officer, Ms. Rowena Andrande of Cavite City participated in the third consultative meeting. 
 The participants of the third consultative meeting of the KASALI TAYO Program

----- DOC | MWSS RO- GADFPS benchmarks CvSU-GADRC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/09/mwss-ro-gadfps-benchmarks-cvsu-gadrc/ | 2023-01-17 -----
In promoting gender equality and women empowerment, the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Regulatory Office (MWSS RO) conducted a benchmarking activity at the university's Gender and Development Resource Center on 17 January 2023.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of the GAD Resource Center along with her staff members welcomed the visitors from MWSS RO- GAD Focal Point System (GADFPS) followed by the presentation of audio-visual presentations (AVPs) of the University, GADRC, MOVE KATROPA, Book Share Corner, and the 18-Day Campaign advocacy song by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation.

 Ms. Estebat also briefly talked about the services provided by GADRC and shared its accomplishments and milestones. She proudly stated that these accomplishments would not be possible without the support of the University President and GAD Champion, Dr. Hernando D. Robles.

 Lastly, the MWSS RO team toured the CvSU's Agri-Eco Tourism Park. (MDPAlmarez) 

 

  

 The GAD FPS of the MWSS RO with CvSU GADRC staff.

----- DOC | GADRC facilitates Workshop on the Preparation of 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/02/09/gadrc-facilitates-workshop-on-the-preparation-of-2022-gad-accomplishment-report/ | 2023-01-12 -----
Participated by University's academic and non-academic personnel, the GAD Resource Center of Cavite State University conducted an activity entitled Workshop on the Preparation of 2022 Gender and Development (GAD) Accomplishment Report on 11-12 January 2023, at the Babaylan Training Room, GADRC to enhance the knowledge and skills of the participants in preparing the GAD Accomplishment Report.

 

 Expressing his hearty appreciation to all the participants of the workshop, University President Hernando D. Robles delivered the opening message in which he encouraged everyone to do their 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report (GADAR) to see the programs they have conducted and cited that GAD is one of the fortunate sectors in the university since five percent (5%) of the university budget is allotted to the resource center.

 Dr. Robles also highlighted that the main function of the organization is to support the vulnerable sectors of society and added that it is great to be one of the GAD focal persons since you have the chance to engage with the community. He wished everyone good luck and expressed his full support for the GAD-initiated activities like the composing of advocacy songs for CvSU.

 
 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, briefed the participants on the guidelines for the preparation of GADAR by discussing the definitions of the ten (10) columns included in the format, providing examples, and presenting a sample template for the attendees to visualize the form as she explained each column. Furthermore, she presented the list of means of verification to guide the participants on the supporting documents they will need.

 In the afternoon session, the participants began to craft their 2022 GADAR with Ms. Estebat standing nearby to answer all the questions and inquiries of the participants. Most of the common problems encountered by the attendees were the computation of the salary reflection, the cost of supplies and materials per activity, and the division of activity participants per category, among others.

 On the second day, the participants presented their outputs. Ms. Estebat provided comments and suggestions for further improvements before submitting their respective 2022 GADAR and reminded everyone to submit it for final checking and verification. The majority of the participants were able to utilize 5% of the GAD budget.

 The said workshop was facilitated to raise the participants' awareness about the importance of aligning their 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report (GADAR) with the approved GAD plan and budget. Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication, moderated the activity, attended by 26 participants composed of 22 faculty members and 15 non-academic personnel. (MCPSioco) 

 The participants during the creation of their respective 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report 
 The participants during the creation of their respective 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report 
 The participants of the Workshop on the Preparation of 2022 GAD Accomplishment Report

----- DOC | DOH releases permit to construct CvSU General Hospital | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/01/10/doh-releases-permit-to-construct-cvsu-general-hospital/ | 2023-01-10 -----
The construction of Cavite State University General Hospital is now set to begin as the Department of Health (DOH) Center for Health Development IV-A (CHD-IVA) released its Permit to Construct (PTC), received by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Romeo Sanchez, Director for University Health Services on 10 January 2023.

  

 Soon to rise in the location of the Old College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) Building, the proposed six-storey facility will start its construction as a Level 1 hospital (administrative, clinical, nursing, and ancillary services included) with a total floor area of 12,000 square meters, 116-beds capacity, and will cater ICU, NICU, and CT-Scan as add on services as per the approval of the Health Facilities and Services Regulatory Bureau of DOH.

 The said facility, which broke ground during the 116th founding anniversary of the university on 19 April 2022  graced by DOH-CALABARZON Regional Director, Dr. Ariel Valencia and OIC-Director of the Health Human Resource Development Bureau (HHRDB), Dr. Pretchell P. Tolentino, will serve not only the people of the town of Indang but also the whole Cavite community alongside the establishment of the CvSU-College of Medicine in pursuit of boosting the public's access to quality health and medical services.

----- DOC | Agri-Eco Tourism Park, now DOT-accredited | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/01/10/agri-eco-tourism-park-now-dot-accredited/ | 2023-01-10 -----
The Department of Tourism (DoT) has officially granted the certificate of accreditation of CvSU Agri-Eco Tourism Park as an Agri Tourism Farm Site, issued on 08 January 2023, with No. DoT-R4A AGT-O1144-2023, valid until January 25, 2025.

----- DOC | Sen Pia Cayetano OKs additional fund for CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/01/10/sen-pia-cayetano-oks-additional-fund-for-cvsu/ | 2023-01-10 -----
Geared on achieving a ' shinier and brighter CvSU' in the coming years, the university is set to receive additional funding under the Republic Act 11936 or General Appropriations Act (GAA) for Fiscal Year 2023 to sustain more projects in the healthcare and medical field and support the institutionalization of Futures Thinking Initiatives.

 Through the steadfast support of Senator Pia S. Cayetano, Chairperson of the Senate Committee on Sustainable Development Goals, Innovation, and Futures Thinking and the Vice Chair of the Senate Committee on Finance, the university will be able to empower its research, extension, and instruction to be more innovative and excellent in its endeavor.

 CvSU will receive a budgetary increase for locally-funded projects listed below to be implemented this year amounting to a total of P 888,663,000.00:

 
 
 
 1.    Free Higher Education 
 744,613,000 

 
 2.    Tulong Dunong Program 
 1,300,000 

 
 3.    Capacity Development on Futures Thinking and Strategic Foresight 
 2,000,000 

 
 4.    Higher Education Research and Innovation Project 
 3,000,000 

 
 5.    Increase in Carrying Capacity of the College of Medicine 
 86,750,000 

 
 6.    Increase in Carrying Capacity of Nursing and Allied Health Programs 
 50,000,000 

 
 7.    Financial Assistance to Athletes 
 1,000,000

----- DOC | PRC-PRB awards CvSU as top performing midwifery school | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/prc-prb-awards-cvsu-as-top-performing-midwifery-school/ | 2022-12-29 -----
After posting a 100% passing percentage in the November 2022 Midwife Licensure Examination (MLE), Cavite State University-Main Campus received a Certificate of Recognition from the Professional Regulatory Board of Midwifery during the Oathtaking and Induction Ceremony for New Midwives held on 20 December 2022 at the Grand Ballroom of Century Park Hotel, Malate, Manila.

 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles received the certificate from the PRC-Board of Midwifery together with the College of Nursing Dean, Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, and Department of Midwifery Principal, Ms. Hydra Jane O. Pantilgan.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles (3rd from right) receives the certificate from PRC-Board of Midwifery.

----- DOC | 3 CvSU campuses, among the top-performing schools in LEPT-Secondary Level | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/3-cvsu-campuses-among-the-top-performing-schools-in-lept-secondary-level/ | 2022-12-29 -----
Cavite State University has once again secured its spot in the top 10 performing schools during the October 2022 Licensure Examination for Professional Teachers (LEPT) – Secondary Level. Cavite State University Silang, Imus, and Cavite City campuses placed 7th, 8th, and 9th, respectively as announced by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC), on 16 December 2022.

 

 Moreover, Silang Campus also posted a 100% passing rate in LEPT-Elementary Level after all of the 31 takers successfully passed the said exam. The national passing rate for LEPT Elementary and Secondary Levels are 54.43% and 50.94%, respectively.

----- DOC | CvSU officials participate in Regional Futures Consortium Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/cvsu-officials-participate-in-regional-futures-consortium-workshop/ | 2022-12-29 -----
Cavite State University key officials joined the assembly of Region IV-A and IV-B State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) officials at Batangas State University – The National Engineering University for the Regional Futures Consortium Workshop: High Level Anticipatory Leadership and Governance Executive Course on 12-15 December 2022.

 Among the delegation from CvSU were:

 
 Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro

 Melbourne R. Talactac

 Mary Jane D. Tepora

 Lolita G. Herrera

 Ammie P. Ferrer

 John Xavier B. Nepomuceno

 Ma. Cynthia N. Rundina-Dela Cruz

 Famela Iza C. Matic

 Edwin Arboleda

 Ma. Veronica P. Peñaflorida

 Maria Soledad Mojica-Lising

 Agnes Francisco

 Almira G. Magcawas

 Lauro Pascua

 Ariel Santos

 
 An initiative of the Senate Committee on Sustainable Development Goals, Innovation, and Futures Thinking, the workshop “ aims to promote the significant role of futures thinking using the idea of foresight and transformative futures to address economic competitiveness and environmental protection in the local context ”.

 Some of the modules discussed during the workshop via Zoom and in-person were Anticipatory Leadership and Governance: History and Key Concepts ; Theory of Social Change and Anticipatory Governance Frameworks ; Anticipatory Governance Tools and Methods ; Case Studies on Anticipatory Leadership and Governance ; SDGs, Intergenerational Fairness and Futures Thinking: A Framework for the Philippine Strategic Foresight Report 2050.

----- DOC | CvSU receives recognition from partner agencies | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/cvsu-receives-recognition-from-partner-agencies/ | 2022-12-29 -----
The Department of the Interior and Local Government – Local Government Academy (DILG-LGA) awarded Cavite State University the NextGen CapDev Accelerator Award in Local Governance at the Capacity Development (CapDev) Accelerator Awards: DILG's Gabi ng Parangal 2022 held at the Manila Hotel on 13 December.

 The university was nominated by DILG IV-A to the national level from among its regional partners in recognition of the various partnership programs and projects such as CapDev Analysis Project, S.A.F.E.R. (Strengthened Alliance on Fight against Illegal Drugs and Terrorism) program, B.A.T.A.S. ( Barangay Aktibo Tungo sa Alternatibong Solusyon ) project, disaster risk reduction and management-related capacity development, Seal of Good Local Governance validation assessment, Citizen Satisfaction Index System (CSIS), Anti-Drug Abuse Council, Peace and Order Council, Lupong Tagapamayapa Incentives Awards, and Local Governance Resource Center, among others, of which the College of Criminal Justice, College of Economics, Management and Development Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, Extension Services and other major units are in the forefront.

 The said award, received by Dr. Famela Iza C. Matic on behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, is one of the proofs of CvSU's ardent commitment toward good local governance through different research and extension projects, and technical services with DILG (local, provincial, regional and national) throughout the years.

  

 “The NextGen CapDev Accelerator Award in Local Governance is given to an existing partner of the DILG that currently implements a program or project, with duration of at least 2 years, that addresses the capacity needs of the LGUs under the full devolution setup.”

 Dr. Famela Iza C. Matic with DILG IV-A Regional Director Ariel Iglesia, CESO V of DILG IV-A 
 Likewise, the Agricultural Training Institute – Region IV-A (ATI-CALABARZON) also gave recognition to CvSU as “ Kaagapay na Pambansang Unibersidad ” and “ Pinaka-aktibong Kaagapay na Pambansang Ahensya ” for the National Coffee, Research, Development, and Extension Center during the “ ATIng Parangal ” held on 12 December at Brgy. Lapidario, Trece Martires City, Cavite.The said awards acknowledged the efforts of CvSU in supporting their and extension programs.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles (center) receives the plaque of recognition for Cavite State University as “Kaagapay na Pambansang Unibersidad” 
 Mr. Danilo Mojica (center) receives the award on behalf of NCRDEC as “Pinaka-aktibong Kaagapay na Pambansang Ahensya”

----- DOC | CvSU hosts 2nd SEACEC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/cvsu-hosts-2nd-seacec/ | 2022-12-29 -----
As a contribution to sustaining the coffee industry amidst the pandemic, Cavite State University through the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) hosted the recently concluded 2nd Southeast Asian Coffee Education Comgress (SEACEC) which kickstarted through a virtual opening program held on 13 December 2022 via Cisco Webex Meetings.

 With the theme, “ Revitalizing the Coffee Industry in Southeast Asia Amidst the Pandemic ”, the event aims to gather all the coffee stakeholders and value chain actors in the Southeast Asian Region to present various initiatives which contribute to the sustainability of the coffee industry amidst the pandemic.

 CvSU President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, delivered the opening message and introduced the event's guest of honor, Department of Agriculture (DA) Undersecretary Domingo Panganiban, representing His Excellency Ferdinand Marcos Jr. Usec. Panganiban highlighted the role of partnership and collaboration in uplifting the coffee industry.

 

 On the other hand, Dr. Gerald Glenn F. Panganiban, Officer-In-Charge (OIC)-Director of the Bureau of Plant Industry, also delivered the keynote message during the opening program which was followed by messages of support from the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) Usec. Dr. Renato Solidum with OIC-Regional Director of the DTI-CAR National Industry Cluster Coordinator for Coffee, Juliet P. Lucas.

 

 

 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, VP for Research and Extension, provided a synopsis of the 1st SEASEC held on 1-4 October 2018 in Tagaytay City while NCRDEC Director Gerry M. Castillo gave an overview and enumerated the line-up of activities of this year's event.

 To wrap up the opening program, a ceremonial coffee toast was executed in celebration of the unwavering commitment to striving harder and accelerating the growth of the coffee industry while edifying academe- community- industry linkages and being a champion in the global market.

 Plenary sessions ensued the opening program wherein the role of research, innovation, and technology transfer in Coffee industry development: the World Coffee Research experience was the initial topic tackled by WCR Chief Executive, Dr. Jennifer Vern Long while the Head of Business Operations of the Indonesian Coffee and Cocoa Research Institute, Dr. Ucu Sumirat, talked about the Science and Technology- based Coffee Production in Indonesia during the second plenary session leaving a statement that “GAP or good agricultural practices should be the new normal.” 

   For the third plenary talk, Mr. Terence J. Ryan, Project Director of ACDI/ VOCA PhilCAFE, discussed the organization's initiatives for the Philippine Coffee Industry Development such as coffee projects in partnership with different institutions in the country like CvSU followed by Dr. David Santos, Chairperson of the National Banner Program on Coffee and Cacao Philippine Council for Agriculture and Fisheries, who provided an outlook on the Philippine coffee industry through the Philippine Coffee Industry Roadmap 2021-2025 in the fourth plenary session.

 The fifth speaker, Dr. Phan Viet Ha, Vice Director of the Western Highlands Agriculture and Forestry Science Institute, discussed Vietnam's Coffee Research and Development during the Time of Pandemic while Dr. Christophe Montagnon, a Coffee Geneticist and Chief Executive Officer of RD2 Vision Montpellier from France explained in the last plenary session the role of genetics and varieties on the cup quality of coffee and presented his research-based evidence regarding the relationship of coffee quality to the altitude of coffee plants/ trees.

----- DOC | Weeklong STRASUC Olympics 2022 officially ends | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/weeklong-strasuc-olympics-2022-officially-ends/ | 2022-12-29 -----
Celebrating the triumph of conquering the challenges posed by the pandemic in the sports sector, the 6th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges' (STRASUC) Olympics 2022 hosted by Cavite State University-Main Campus concluded victoriously on 08 December 2022.

 Participated by more than 1,700 student-athletes from 12 participating state universities and colleges (SUCs) in Region IV a closing ceremony for the STRASUC Olympics 2022 was held in the CvSU-Main Grandstand delivering official results of the 16 sports competitions and was graced by Dr. Francisco V. Aguirre, State Colleges and Universities Athletic Association of Sports Directors (SCUAASD) President and Mr. Roberto De Guzman and Mr. John Michael Vergara, CALABARZON and MIMAROPA Regional Sports Coordinator, respectively.

 Represented by Mr. Enrique Magalay Jr., STRASUC Chair Dr. Levy B. Arago Jr. extended his congratulations to the organizers, committees, athletes, and the winners of the Olympics this year. CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles also expressed his greetings to the winners of the sports events as well as his happiness on how camaraderie was celebrated by the 12 SUCs during the 7-day event. In his speech, Dr. Robles also shared that he is confident that CvSU can successfully host the SCUAA Olympics in 2023 through the solidarity of the Southern Tagalog Regions and the support of other SUCs and CHED Commissioners.

 In his closing message, Dr. Aguirre, president of State Colleges and Universities Athletic Association of Sports Directors (SCUAASD) lauded the efforts of the CvSU community on its successful hosting of the STRASUC Olympics 2022.

 Meanwhile, with 77 gold, 60 silver, and 33 bronze medals, the Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU) Lakers was hailed overall champion, snatching the title from Palawan State University (PSU) who placed first in the Bubble Competition held at Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) in April 2022. The PSU Bearcats secured the second spot while Batangas State University (BatSU) Red Spartans, CvSU Green Hornets, and Romblon State University (RSU) The Marbles placed third, fourth, and fifth, respectively.

 Below is the table of the top five performing schools in the STRASUC Olympics 2022:

----- DOC | CvSU hosts STRASUC Olympics 2022: One Southern Tagalog Region | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/29/cvsu-hosts-strasuc-olympics-2022-one-southern-tagalog-region/ | 2022-12-29 -----
Unity, camaraderie, and sportsmanship have once again ignited among the 12 participating state universities and colleges (SUCs) from CALABARZON and MIMAROPA regions in the 6th Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges' (STRASUC) Olympics 2022 hosted by Cavite State University-Main Campus from 3-9 December 2022, with the theme “ One Southern Tagalog Region ”.

 Sports advocate and Chairperson of the Senate Committee of Sports Hon. Christopher Lawrence “Bong” T. Go graced the in-person opening ceremony held at the CvSU Grandstand on 04 December, marking the official start of the week-long sports events among the competing SUCs.

 Senator Christopher “Bong” Go 
   “Bilang inyong senador at Chairperson po sa sports, isinisulong ko po na mabigyan ng karampatang suporta (ang mga atleta) upang makapag-training at maabot ang kanilang potensyal sa larangan.”  Sen. Go stated. He also encouraged the audience particularly the youth to engage in sports rather than in vices and illegal activities and gave away basketball, volleyball and soccer balls to the delight of the players.

 Meanwhile, also present in the opening program to welcome and express support to the delegations were Indang Mayor Perfecto V. Fidel, Officer-in-Charge (OIC) to the Office of the Director CHEDRO IV-A, Dr. Freddie B. Bulauan, and CHEDRO IV-B Regional Director, Atty. Joselito C. Alisuag. their respective speech, Mayor Fidel reminded the athletes that aside from aiming for the victory, sportsmanship must also reign in the competition; Dr. Bulauan highlighted the impact of sports on the values and physical and mental capabilities of the athletes; and Atty. Alisuag conveyed his deepest support and salutation to the participating institutions.

 Indang Municipal Mayor, Hon. Perfecto V. Fidel 
 OIC to the Office of the Director CHEDRO IV-A, Dr. Freddie B. Bulauan 
 CHEDRO IV-B Regional Director, Atty. Joselito C. Alisuag 
 Likewise, CHED Commissioner Jo Mark M. Libre reminded the student-athletes the important roles of discipline, dedication, and determination in sports and even in their studies. As for Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC) President Tirso A. Ronquillo, “… the benefits of this far outweigh the cost. We believe that sports development really develop(s) an individual, holistically. Ang palakasan ay nagpapalusog ng kaisipan at katawan ng isang indibidwal. Ang isang indibidwal na may malusog na kaisipan at pangangatawan ay bubuo ng isang malusog na pamilya. Ang isang malusog na pamilya ay bubuo ng isang malusog na komunidad. At ang malusog na komunidad, ay bubuo ng isang malusog at maunlad na bansa .”

 CHED Commissioner Jo Mark M. Libre 
 The STRASUC Chair and President of Mindoro State University, Dr. Levy B. Arago Jr., on the other hand, addressed the delegations by saying that the “ STRASUC Olympics is a symbol of continuing effort to contribute to the advancement of the Philippine sports. And like our theme One Southern Tagalog Region, I hope this event brings all of us even closer to each other. Today, I already declare all of you as victors but let me also declare a challenge. I challenge all of you to seek for greater victories, like the torch of your passion… and make sure to keep it burning.” 

 STRASUC Chair and President of Mindoro State University, Dr. Levy B. Arago Jr. 
 Straight from his engagement in Iloilo, CHED Chairperson J. Prospero “Popoy” E. De Vera III, also graced the event with his presence and delivered a message of support and felicitations to the delegations. He also cited the response of the Commission to the abrupt changes in conducting sports activities and competitions; among these efforts is the launching of sports and wellness program, initially in Tarlac.

 CHED Chairperson J. Prospero “Popoy” E. De Vera III 
  “' Yun ang aking pasasalamat sa mga atletang tuloy-tuloy ang pageensayo, gusto ko kayong i-congratulate at gusto kong sabihin na maaring sa ngayon ay hindi n'yo pa nakikita ang epekto ng pagiging disiplinado sa athletics. Pero 'pag kayo'y tumatanda na, doon n'yo mapapansin ang lahat ng inambag nyong disipilina sa katawan ninyo, saka yan babalik at pahahabain ang inyong buhay. So, enjoy the games and do your best. Win with dignity, practice excellence” was  Chair Popoy's message of encouragement to the student-athletes.

 The STRASUC Hymn, “ Lalaban ang STRASUC ”, was also launched during the opening ceremony followed by a welcome performance of three thousand (3,000) CvSU students exhibiting colorful dances such as  La Jota Caviteña  and  Tara Na! (https://www.facebook.com/CaviteStateU/videos/1621748698245036).  The banner raising was led by the respective sports directors and presidents while Ms. Rhealyn D. Villar, gold medalist in women's badminton during the STRASUC Olympics Bubble Competition in April 2022, lighted the Unity Flame. The Oaths of Sportsmanship and Technical Officials were led by Mr. James Warren Cruspe State Colleges and Universities Athletic Association of Sports Directors (SCUAASD) President, Dr. Francisico V. Aguirre, respectively.

 Student athletes, coaches, sports directors, and university officials from Batangas State University – The National Engineering University (BatSU-NEU), Cavite State University (CvSU), Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU), Southern Luzon State University (SLSU), University of the Philippines-Los Banos (UPLB) University of Rizal System (URS), Marinduque State College, (MSC), Mindoro State University (MinSU), Occidental Mindoro State College (OMSC), Palawan State University (PSU), Romblon State University (RSU), and Western Philippines University (WPU) paraded donning their official uniforms as part of the opening program.

----- DOC | Tree planting: CvSU's contribution to humanity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/13/tree-planting-cvsus-contribution-to-humanity/ | 2022-12-13 -----
Recognizing the significance of trees for our survival, two more tree planting activities were conducted in the University before the year ends.

 “As we plant today, we are thinking about and acting upon the future. This is CvSU's contribution to humanity.” This was the message of Dr. Hernando D. Robles during the Ceremonial Kaong Tree Planting Activity at the Sugar Palm Technology, Research, Innovation, and Production (STRIP) Area on 24 November 2022. A total of 100 kaong seedlings were planted by the members of the Administrative Council in the area which will also serve as an experimentation area for kaong -related research and studies, a demonstration farm, and a production area.

 Meanwhile, on 20 September 2022, another 100 seedlings of nangka ( Artocarpus heterophyllus ) were planted by the Admin Council members in the zone referred to as the Newly Acquired Land of the University.

 Both activities were spearheaded by the University Pollution Control Office (UPCO) headed by For. Junser Magpantay.

----- DOC | CvSU, Northern Illinois U sign MOA for DANAS Tagalog Project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/13/cvsu-northern-illinois-u-sign-moa-for-danas-tagalog-project/ | 2022-12-13 -----
Cavite State University has officially sealed its partnership with Northern Illinois University through a virtual Memorandum of Agreement signing ceremony held via Zoom on 30 November 2022.

 The agreement will facilitate the implementation of the CvSU-College of Arts and Sciences' project titled Demonstrating and AdvaNcing AcquiSition of Tagalog through Coffee Education ( DANAS Tagalog Project ), in which CvSU is set to receive $48,240 from NIU as a grant subrecipient to host the intensive training of 15 US scholars on language and identity ( KAPElipino ), language and Filipino family ( KAPEmilya ), language and community ( KAPEtiran ) and language and experiences ( KAPEhan ) in June 2023.

 Cultural immersion in various historical sites in Cavite and neighboring places like Laguna, Corregidor Island, and Manila will also be implemented through the said project to serve as open and onsite spaces for language and cultural appreciation.

 DANAS Tagalog Project is a subcomponent of NIU's The Philippines Coffee and Carabao Culture and Language: Tagalog Language Immersion in Northern and Southern Rural Philippines program funded by the United States Department of Education – Fulbright-Hays Group Projects Abroad.

 The ceremonial signing was virtually attended by Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, dean of CAS; Dr. Mariel Mojica-Lising, director for International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office; Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, director for Public Affairs and Communications Office; and faculty members from the Department of Communication and Department of Humanities.

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan (left), dean of College of Arts and Sciences and Dr. Robert Brinkmann, dean of the NIU-College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. 
 Attendees from NIU were Dr. Robert Brinkmann, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (CLAS); Prof. Rhodalyne Gallo-Crail, a faculty member from the Department of World Languages and Culture- NIU-CLAS; Dr. Eric Jones, Executive Director for Global Initiatives; Dr. Judy Ledgerwood, Director for Center for Southeast Asian Studies.

----- DOC | GADRC facilitates webinar on understanding SOGIE and Human Rights | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/gadrc-facilitates-webinar-on-understanding-sogie-and-human-rights/ | 2022-12-12 -----
As part of the 2022 CvSU's Celebration of the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center successfully conducted a webinar entitled “Understanding SOGIE and Human Rights” on 12 December 2022, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live.

 The activity aims to increase the level of awareness of the CvSU Community on the dimensions of human sexuality to prevent acts of discrimination against people based on their sexual orientation, gender identity, or expression, hence, reinforcing the message of inclusivity in CvSU.

 

 University President Hernando D. Robles delivered the opening message stating that it is just proper and fitting to end the celebration of the 18-Day Campaign to End VAW with a webinar on SOGIE and human rights. Dr. Robles reiterated that regardless of gender preference, everybody is entitled to the constitutional right or basic human rights.

 Mr. Pent Elyria Dawn “Don” V. Liongson, Gender Advocate, discussed SOGIE and human rights, defining SOGIESC as an inclusive term that refers to characteristics common to people. He discussed the issues and recent experiences of people of diverse SOGIESC, especially in employment and education, and existing anti-discrimination ordinances in the Philippines.

 Don also said that there is a need to talk about SOGIESC to break the misconceptions that hamper the achievement of gender equality and women empowerment (GEWE) and it will help us avoid unconscious insensitivity among others. Don then discussed sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and sex characteristics and gave examples for the viewers to easily understand the difference between the terms.

 

 He also enumerated ways to promote non-discrimination such as challenging prejudices against LGBTQI+ people, helping improve institutional structures to prevent discrimination, developing and implementing policies that will support and protect them, and including programs for LGBTQIA+ in the plans, among others.

 

 Dr. Jenny Beb F. Ebo, Director of the Office of Business Affairs delivered the closing message on behalf of the Vice President Lolita G. Herrera. In her message, she expressed their appreciation to the speaker for his valuable contribution to the webinar on understanding SOGIE and human rights and extended her appreciation to the participants of the webinar. Dr. Ebo said that the issues of SOGIE and human rights were discussed clearly by the speaker by giving examples and interactive quizzes. She also said that the activity will help increase the awareness of the participants, empowering and involving them more in the campaign. (MCPSioco) 

 The participants of the webinar.

----- DOC | GADRC holds webinar on Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/gadrc-holds-webinar-on-anti-trafficking-in-persons-act-of-2022/ | 2022-12-05 -----
The CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center held a webinar titled Philippine Situation and Republic Act No. 11862 Otherwise known as the Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2022 , on 05 December 2022, via Zoom video conferencing.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director welcomed and greeted all the participants on behalf of President Hernando D. Robles. She also gave a glimpse on human trafficking, its concerning issues, and trends.

 Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte, Project Development Officer III and Secretariat of Regional Inter-agency Committee on Anti-Trafficking (RIACAT)-VAWC IV -A, discussed the human trafficking situation in the country and the salient features of the Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2022. He provided an overview of the government's commitment to the elimination of human – trafficking, the provision of programs and services provided by DSWD for the recovery and reintegration of trafficked persons, and the promotion of culture of human rights to combat human trafficking in migration frontliners.

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension, made the closing remarks expressing his deepest appreciation to the participants especially to Mr. Villafuerte who served as the resource speaker. He also said that the implementation of R.A. No. 11862 will provide tools for the authorities to restrain and penalize persons that commit acts of human trafficking. He also expressed his gratitude to GADRC and RIACAT for initiating a very timely discussion and assured that the university will be an active partner in promoting and upholding the rights of women and children. (GCRSison) 

 Mr. Ray Andrew P. Villafuerte (left side), the resource speaker of the webinar and Ms. Joy Peji served as the moderator. 
 The participants of the webinar on Anti-Trafficking.

----- DOC | 18-Day Campaign to End VAW: GADRC holds Infomercial Contest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw-gadrc-holds-infomercial-contest/ | 2022-12-01 -----
Celebrating the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women (VAW), the university's GAD Resource Center concluded an Infomercial Contest from October 17 to November 21, 2022, and the entries were posted on the GADRC's official Facebook page from November 24 to December 1, 2022.

 The said contest was held as part of CvSU's advocacy campaign to raise awareness on the problem of violence and the elimination of all forms of violence against women and girls using social media as a platform of advocacy.

 The set of judges composed of Ms. Ely Rose L. Panganiban-Briones, GAD Coordinator of CvSU Bacoor City Campus; Mr. Arturo C. Eraña, Head of Technology Promotions Division of Extension Services; and Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Manager of Innovations and Technology Support Office (ITSO) evaluated the thirty-one (31) entries received by GADRC through the criteria: message/storytelling/relevance (40%), composition/creativity/originality (35%), production quality (20%), and public impact ( highest number of likes and shares in Facebook ) (5%).

 Third (84.33%) and second (87.33%) places were awarded to the College of Education while the first-place award (92%) was received by CvSU Carmona Campus, announced during the webinar on Understanding SOGIE and Human Rights via Zoom videoconferencing and Facebook Live on December 12, 2022. (MCPSioco) 

 The winners of the Infomercial Contest 
  

 Third Place from the College of Education. 
  

 Second Place College of Education. 
  

 First Place from CvSU Carmona Campus

----- DOC | CAS co-organizes 1st FRAMEwork Asia-Pacific Communication Conference | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/30/cas-co-organizes-1st-framework-asia-pacific-communication-conference/ | 2022-11-30 -----
Faculty members from the Department of Communication of the College of Arts and Sciences served as members of working committees of the First FRAMEwork Asia-Pacific Communication Conference and represented Cavite State University in a partnership with Far Eastern University, Visayas State University, University of the Philippines – Mindanao, Atma Jaya Catholic University of Indonesia and University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, November 24 to 25.

 Dr. Bettina Joyce Ilagan who served as a discussant, Prof. Racquel Agustin as roundtable lecturer, and Prof. Lisette Mendoza as one of the jurors for best paper presentation, were with Prof. Bernard Feranil and Mr. Renz Kevin Alcazar as hosts during the two-day conference themed as Disruptions and (Re) Constructions in the Time of COVID-19: Turning the Gaze in the Global South.  The conference was hybrid with local and international participants from Thailand, Indonesia, and China joining via Zoom.

 One of the highlights of the event was the ceremonial MOA signing that sealed the partnership of the six academic institutions.

----- DOC | CvSU joins STRASUC CAF 2022, bags several awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/30/cvsu-joins-strasuc-caf-2022-bags-several-awards/ | 2022-11-30 -----
The University joined and bagged different awards during the Southern Tagalog Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges (STRASUC) Culture and the Arts Festival 2022 held from 14-18 November at Batangas State University, the National Engineering University.

 With the theme “ Advancing Culture and the Arts as a Strategic Resource for National Development ”, BatSU-NEU hosted the 5-day festival participated by 12 state universities and colleges from CALABARZON and MIMAROPA Regions. CvSU President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles with VP Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP Lolita G. Herrera, and VP Mary Jane D. Tepora joined the CvSU delegation in the opening ceremony on 15 November.

 In the visual arts category, Mr. Jose Mari Israita, a BA Journalism student from the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS), placed 5 th in the Photography competition while Mr. Marc Stephen C. Malarayap, a BS Architecture student from the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT), secured the 4 th place in the Painting competition.

 Under the performing/literary arts category, the CvSU-Main Performing Arts Group also ranked 5 th in the Short and Sweet Play and Folk Dance competition represented by the Student Artiste Society (STARS) and CvSU Cultural Dance Troupe (CCDT), respectively. The CvSU – Prime Movers and Primera Hija also bagged the 2 nd place award in the Hip-Hop/Street Dance competition.

 Meanwhile, Mr. Elly Boy P. Bondoc of Silang Campus and Ms. Jezreal A. De Ocampo  who represented the university in the Festival King and Queen 2022 received the Power Scents People's Choice Award.

 Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) was the hailed overall champion of STRASUC CAF 2022 upon receiving a total of 85 points

----- DOC | CvSU starts the yuletide celebration, lights up giant Christmas tree | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/30/cvsu-starts-the-yuletide-celebration-lights-up-giant-christmas-tree/ | 2022-11-30 -----
To officially jumpstart the university's yuletide celebration, the Main Campus conducted its annual Christmas Tree Lighting through an in-person ceremony on Thursday, 17 November 2022 at the Laya at Diwa Plaza, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite.

 The ceremony was attended by university officials, academic and non-academic personnel, and students. It started through a Sunduan Parade at 4:00 in the afternoon and followed by a short program prior to the actual lighting of the Christmas tree. Below are the excepts from the messages of the president and vice presidents:

 “I can see the delight in the faces of everyone. We have all been waiting for this. This Christmas tree lighting ceremony also serves as a celebration of the victory and accomplishments of the university, despite the pandemic. Thank you very much to all your contributions for the good of our University.”   – President Hernando D. Robles

 “I hope that the excitement and happiness felt by everyone during the event will remain even after the activity and be the fuel to continue loving the University. This is our university, let us love our university. Let us commit ourselves to the university, let us be the pride of the university.” – VP Camilo A. Polinga, Administrative and Support Services

 “I am looking forward to the persistent efforts of everyone in keeping up with the high standards in terms of academic programs and unity in achieving the vision of CvSU.” – VP Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Academic Affairs

 “I acknowledge the efforts of the individuals involved in the research and extension of the University and hope that the commitment towards R&E will continue so we can reach our goal of becoming a global university. My heartfelt gratitude to all the OVPRE staff, faculty members, and students.”   – VP Melbourne R. Talactac, Research and Extension

 “ This day is a sign that we should have a grateful heart and we have to look forward to all the positive things that we can contribute to the institution. Each of us here is essential in reaching the goal of the University. ” – VP Mary Jane D. Tepora, Planning and Development

 “Ibahagi ang pag-ibig at lagging magmahalan 

 Punuin ng pagkalinga ang ating kapaligiran 

 Isipin ang kawang-gawa, magbahagi sa ating kapwa 

 Lalo na sa mga taong tanging mayroon la'ang ay wala. 

 Napakaraming pagsubok na sa daigdig ay dumating 

 K alungkutan ang bumalot sa maligayang damdamin 

 Kapit-kamay tanggapin ang bawat naging kapalaran 

 Bigyang puwang sa puso na ang Pasko'y maipagdiwang.”  – From the poem of VP Lolita G. Herrera entitled “Ang Diwa ng Pasko”

 The lighting ceremony ended with a fireworks display that amazed the audience (Courtesy of Mr. Marlon Talamante https://www.facebook.com/reel/534966991436681/?s=single_unit.).

 

 Credits to Lakwatsero Caviteño

----- DOC | Dr. Baltazar, Dr. Mojica among the best R&D paper awardees at NSAARRD | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/30/dr-baltazar-dr-mojica-among-the-best-rd-paper-awardees-at-nsaarrd/ | 2022-11-30 -----
Dr. Ruel A. Mojica, Professor at the College of Engineering and Information Technology and Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Director for Research of the Main Campus were conferred Best Development Paper and 3 rd Best Research Paper awards, respectively, during the National Symposium on Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (NSAARRD) 2022 held on 19 October. The winners were announced by the Department of Science and Technology- Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST-PCAARRD) on 10 November during the 2022 S&T Awards and Recognitions, which coincided with their 50th founding anniversary celebration.

 Dr. Mojica and team composed of Engr. Rosalie A. Pelle, Mr. Aeron R. Mojica, and Mr. Andrew J. Siducon, bagged the 1 st place in the Development Research category with their paper entitled “Piloting and Commercialization of Coffee Blends”. Meanwhile, J.H. Cerilles State College and DA-Regional Field Office 2 claimed the 2nd and 3rd place, respectively.

 Dr. Mojica (center) receives his certificate and plaque of recognition. 
 Dr. Baltazar's paper, co-authored with Ms. Arlene Calipo-Panaligan, on “DNA Fingerprinting of Philippine Coffee (Coffea spp.)” ranked 3rd under the Best Research Paper Award. The Mariano Marcos State University, Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University, Pangasinan State University, and Ilocos Sur Polytechnic State College tied in the 2nd place while Central Mindanao University bagged 1st place in the said category.

 Dr. Baltazar (center) receives her certificate and plaque of recognition. 
 Aside from a plaque of recognition, authors of the best research papers and best development papers will receive a cash prize amounting to P150, 000 for 1 st place winners, P125,000 for 2 nd place, and P100,000 for 3 rd place. The consortia and the implementing agency will also receive the separate amount of cash prizes worth P20,000 and P10,000, respectively.

 NSAARRD is an annual symposium spearheaded by DOST-PCAARRD conducted to recognize the exemplary R&D outputs of institutions and researchers in the agriculture, aquatic, and natural resources sectors in the Philippines through Best Research Paper and Best Development Paper award categories.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts FGD with One Life Foundation and Happy Homes Housing Cooperative | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/gadrc-conducts-fgd-with-one-life-foundation-and-happy-homes-housing-cooperative/ | 2022-11-29 -----
A focus group discussion (FGD) between CvSU-GAD Resource Center and members of One Life Foundation and Happy Homes Housing Cooperative was conducted on 29 November 2022 to identify the needs of the latter, specifically on the aspect of having a regular source of income, to provide assistance in conducting livelihood programs through seminars and training, and to strengthen the partnership with the stakeholders for program planning and development.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation of GADRC, discussed the result of the Community Needs Assessment (CNA) conducted with the participants. With a total number of 15 respondents, eighty percent (80%) were females, and twenty percent (20%) were males while 53.3% percent of the respondents were married, and 46.7% were single. She also highlighted the results of the suggested livelihood program of the participants which includes programs related to dishwashing liquid making, baking, and pastry making.

 After the discussion of the result of the CNA, Ms. Estebat asked the participants about the other livelihood projects they wanted to venture into wherein they suggested meat processing and flower arrangement. She advised them to consider the available raw materials in their area which they can use to lessen the price of their capital.

 The FGD was attended by a total of nineteen (19) participants composed of 14 females and 5 males. ( GCRSison) 

 Dr. Benjamina Pereyra (left), Chairperson of HHHC, and Ms. Raecel A. Estebat during the discussion proper. 
  

 FGD Participants sharing their thoughts on the livelihood program. 
  

 Participants of the FGD.

----- DOC | CvSU tops Midwife Licensure Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/29/cvsu-tops-midwife-licensure-exam/ | 2022-11-29 -----
Cavite State University is again the top-performing school in Midwifery after posting a 100% passing rate in the November 2022 Midwife Licensure Examination (MLE), as announced by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) on 10 November 2022. All of the twenty-six (26) examinees from CvSU successfully passed the said exam.

 Following CvSU were the University of the Philippines School of Health and Sciences-Leyte with a passing percentage of 97.06%, respectively, and Sultan Kudarat State University with a passing rate of 94.59%

 Out of the 3,472 examinees, 1,768 hurdled the MLE with a national passing rate of 50.92%.

----- DOC | Bawal Bastos: A Webinar on the Law and IRR of the Safe Spaces Act RA 11313 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/bawal-bastos-a-webinar-on-the-law-and-irr-of-the-safe-spaces-act-ra-11313/ | 2022-11-28 -----
In celebration of the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence against Women, the university's Gender and Development Resource conducted a webinar entitled Bawal ang Bastos: A Webinar on the Law and IRR of the Safe Spaces Act (RA 11313) on November 28, 2022, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live. The webinar aims to help the Cavite State University Community attain a VAW-free community and at the same time identify measures to respond to the needs of victims/survivors of such abuses.

 University President and GAD Champion, Dr. Hernando D. Robles delivered the opening message, after which, Mr. Gian Carlo R. Sison, GADRC Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant presented the Program Flow, Objectives of the activity, and House Rules.

 

 Dr. Maria Helen F. Dayo, Anthropologist and GAD Expert of the University of the Philippines- Center for Women's Studies Foundation Inc. discussed the Bawal Bastos Law: Safe Spaces Act (R.A. No. 11313) and the four (4) types of Sexual Harassment penalized under Safe Spaces Act: Gender-based Streets and Public Spaces Sexual Harassment , Gender-based Online Sexual Harassment , Gender-based Sexual Harassment in the Workplace , and Gender-based Sexual Harassment in Educational and Training Institutions . She further defined gender-based sexual harassment in public places as any unwelcome and unsolicited sexual acts or words directed at any individual that includes catcalling, persistent unsolicited comments or gestures about a person's looks and others.

 Following the discussion, VP Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP Melbourne R. Talactac, VP Camilo A. Polinga, VP Mary Jane D. Tepora, and VP Lolita G. Herrera, expressed their commitment to putting an end to violence against women.

 

 Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan, Director of Human Resources and Development Office delivered the closing message and expressed his gratitude to the resource speaker for her extremely educational discussion. Before he ended his message, he left a quote from Henry Ford stating, “ Coming together is a beginning, keeping together is progress, and working together is success .” (MDPAlmarez) 

 

 
 The participants of the webinar on Bawal Bastos.

----- DOC | CvSU-GAD coordinators speak at TMC-LGU GAD Planning and Budgeting seminar-workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/cvsu-gad-coordinators-speak-at-tmc-lgu-gad-planning-and-budgeting-seminar-workshop/ | 2022-11-27 -----
The local government unit (LGU) of Trece Martires City conducted a seminar-workshop on GAD Planning and Budgeting on November 24-27, 2022, at Coron Soleil Garden Resort in Coron, Palawan, attended by 22 males and 28 females.

 City Administrator, Atty. Ma. Jeanette Tolentino delivered the opening message and expressed her gratitude to CvSU-GAD Resource Center for facilitating an insightful conversation about building capacity for gender equality and women's empowerment.

 Honorable Mayor Gemma Buendia-Lubigan delivered a special message in which she explained that the objective of this exercise was to include elements of GAD in their vision and objectives for the City of Trece Martires.

 On the first day of the workshop, Ms. Arlene Llanto-Estrada, GAD Coordinator and faculty member of Trece Martires City Campus, discussed GAD issues and concerns, as well as gender mainstreaming. She emphasized that gender mainstreaming requires a team effort and no one should be left behind, she also added that monitoring is the key to a progressive GAD.

 On the second day, Mr. King David Javier Agreda, GAD Coordinator and faculty member of the Cavite City Campus, expressed his appreciation to the LGU TMC for incorporating GAD components into their offices. Mr. Agreda drew attention to the LGU TMC's absence of a GAD database. “ Change cannot be accomplished without efforts ,” he said, adding that their goals must be in line with the current gender concerns. (GCRSison) 

 Trece Martires City Mayor Gemma Buendia Lubigan (left) and Atty. Ma. Jeanette Tolentino during the delivery of their respective welcome messages. 
  

 Ms. Arlene L. Estrada (left) discussing the Gender Mainstreaming and Mr. King David J. Agreda on GAD Planning and Budgeting. 
  

 Photo opportunity with TMC Mayor Gemma Lubigan (second from right) and Vice Mayor Romeo L. Montehermoso (second from left). 
  

 

 Registration of Participants 
  

 A group photo with Mayor Gemma Lubigan

----- DOC | GADRC conducts Man and Masculinity webinar for Int'l Men's Day | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/gadrc-conducts-man-and-masculinity-webinar-for-intl-mens-day/ | 2022-11-22 -----
In celebration of International Men's Day, the Gender and Development Resource Center conducted a webinar on Man and Masculinity: Breaking the Bias on November 21-22, 2022, via Zoom Video conferencing and Facebook Live.

 The webinar aims to focus on men's health and well-being and promote male involvement in maternal and child health as well as responsible parenting that will lead to the elimination of violence against women and children.

 On behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, GADRC Director Susan G. Tan warmly welcomed all participants and expressed her appreciation for the university's full support for the International Men's Day celebration. Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, GAD Coordinator of the Naic Campus introduced the resource speaker and served as the moderator for the activity.

 Mr. Gino A. Cabrera, a faculty member of Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) discussed “ The Man I am: A Silent Crisis ” wherein he explained some of the myths about mental illness and added that because of our culture, boys are raised to be strong and brave, and taught to minimize expressing emotions as it can signify weakness.

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, Faculty Member and GAD Coordinator of Cavite City campus, presented the topic Toxic Masculinity: Boys Will Be Boys discussing the man's vital role which is to be a father and friend to his wife and children. Mr. Agreda also advised the attendees to take responsibility for the power they have and to proactively campaign and work towards the eradication of violence against women.

 

 On the second day, Prevention is better than Cure: Deeper Look into Men's Health was presented by Mr. Jesus Trix Ponsaran, a Faculty Member of the College of Medicine. Health issues relating to men such as prostate cancer and the like was discussed thoroughly.

 The second day of the activity was moderated by Mr. Leonard C. Paunil, GAD Alternate, Carmona Campus. (GCRSison) 

 Mr. Ariel R. Rivera (upper left side) served as the moderator, Mr. Gino A Cabrera, (upper right side) and Mr. King David J. Agreda, (lower middle) served as the resource speakers on the first day of the webinar series.

----- DOC | ICBDRRM trainees under KASALI TAYO Program conduct community immersion | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/icbdrrm-trainees-under-kasali-tayo-program-conduct-community-immersion/ | 2022-11-18 -----
As part of the GAD Resource Center extension program “ KA balikat sa SA nayan at LI ngap sa mga TA ong nasa Layla Y an ng Lipunan tungo sa Paglag O ” or dubbed as KASALI TAYO program, the first batch of trainees during the five-day Training of Trainers (ToT) on Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction (ICBDRRM) held on September 27 to October 1, 2022, were divided into three (3) teams and proceeded with community immersion at Bacoor City, Maragondon, and Rosario from November 16 to 18, 2022.

 In partnership with the Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Office (PPDAO) of the Province of Cavite and the Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP), the project will help the University in attaining its objective of prioritizing an inclusive disaster risk reduction management (IDRRM) in the Province of Cavite in the form of active participation of the vulnerable sectors, such as persons with special needs, LGBTQs, senior citizens, and solo parents in DRRM planning with the end goal of creating resilient communities and inclusive society, one barangay at a time.

 The first group assigned at Bacoor City, Cavite was composed of five members namely Ms. Evelyn M. Reyes, Mr. Enrico H. Saulog, Ms. Jessie Rose G. Cruto, Mr. John Mark “Kylie” L. Barde, and Mr. Florian H. De Borja, and was guided by Ms. Eena Geslaine Barrun and Mr. Francis John P. Beltejar of CDP while the second group was designated to Rosario, Cavite, composed of six members: Mr. Manuel Cruz Jr., Ms. Krystel Joy Ague, Mr. Simplicio Rojales, Ms. Lorielyn Agustin, Mr. King Berma, and Ms. Maine Ugali and was led by Ms. Nathalie Malabato-Saguido and Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta of CDP as well.

 Meanwhile, the third group was deployed to Maragondon, Cavite having six members consisting of Ms. Lyn Andrea Escobar, Mr. Jhunnel Adrian Tan, Mr. Marc Darrel Alcazar, Ms. Lerissa Baes, Ms. Teresita Pascual, and Mr. Rolando Lagahit and headed by Ms. Jelyne Forneloza Gealone and Ms. Jocelyn Samson of CDP.

 With the guidance of CDP, each team discussed the Republic Act 10121 also known as the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (PDRRM) Act Of 2010 or PDRRM Law, specifically on the process and implementation steps of CBDRRM, Preparedness, Prevention, and Mitigation, Response and Preparation for Rehabilitation and Recovery, and CBDRRM mechanism to the participants provided with workshops.

 Some of the activities carried out by the teams were Community Risk Assessment (CRA) tool in which participants created tools to serve as notices, warnings, and guides to residents during a disaster; the local disaster timeline, where participants recorded the disaster they experienced in different years and compare the response method to it; Aling Nena's store, a simulation activity where participants must purchase equipment and machines that will be used during a disaster; and Doctor Kwak-kwak wherein a group member had to entangle their teammates, while the other group had to attempt to fix it. These exercises are meant to give the participants a realistic view of how to react and behave before, during, and after a disaster. (GCRSison) 

 Bacoor – Registration of Participants 
  

 Participants creating a Community Risk Assessment Tool 
  

 A group member explaining their completed CRA Tool to another group. 
  

 

  

 Photo of participants together with the CDP Trainers and Bacoor Team. 
  

 Team Bacoor together with Mr. Michael J. Saquitan, Barangay Captain of Molino II, Bacoor City, Cavite 
  

 Maragondon 
  

 Preparation and presentation of finished output on Local disaster timeline activity. 
  

 

  

 Dr. Kwakkwak activity 
  

 The Team Maragondon 
  

 Rosario 
  

 Registration of Participants 
  

 

  

 Aling Nena's Store Simulation 
  

 

  

 Photo of the participants together with Team Rosario and CDP Trainers.

----- DOC | Pre-Employment Webinar 2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/16/pre-employment-webinar-2022/ | 2022-11-16 -----
EYES HERE, GRADUATING STUDENTS! 

 Pre-employment Webinar 2022 

 November 29, 2022 

 
 Participants may register through the registration link below: https://forms.gle/qGMGS84maPSofbWc6 

 
 CvSU-Main OSAS official FB page: https://www.facebook.com/CvSUOSAS/

----- DOC | GADRC holds Basic Life Support and Community Risk Assessment training | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/22/gadrc-holds-basic-life-support-and-community-risk-assessment-training/ | 2022-11-11 -----
As part of the Gender and Development Resource Center's (GADRC) extension program KA balikat sa SA nayan at LI ngap sa mga TA ong nasa layla Y an ng lipunan tungo sa paglag O (KASALI TAYO), a two-day training on Basic Life Support and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation was conducted on 10-11 November 2022.

 In collaboration with the Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Office (PPDAO), Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office (PSWDO), Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (PDRRMO) of the Cavite Province and Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP), the training was held in preparation for the community outreach of the twenty-two (22) trained trainers who have completed the Training of Trainers (ToT) on Inclusive Community-Based Risk Reduction Management (ICBDRRM) last September 27 to October 1, 2022.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, GADRC Director, warmly welcomed the participants and discussed the severe effects of Typhoon Paeng on the properties and livelihoods of the affected regions in the Philippines. She also stressed the importance of participating in seminars that promote preparedness and knowledge on community risk assessment and basic first aid as preparation for unexpected events.

 On the first day of the activity, Ms. Angelita R. Zamora, Communication Unit Leader, Emergency Medical Technician, and Trained Trainer of Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management (CBDRRM) of PDRRMO-Cavite, discussed the legal basis of CBDRRM, the Basic Life Support (BLS), Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR), and RA No. 10121. Ms. Zamora demonstrated how to assess the victim's responsiveness and showed proper CPR techniques and discussed factors to consider when performing CPR, one of which is the proper torso and arm placement. Moreover, she demonstrated how to use an Automated External Defibrillator (AED and showed an effective abdominal thrust technique.

 On the second day, Ms. Zamora discussed the necessity of first aid, noting that it is delivered quickly to a person or victim who has suffered bodily damage. She highlighted the three goals of first aid: to relieve pain, to avoid additional harm, and to prolong life. She also demonstrated how to bandage wounds and injuries properly. Meanwhile, Ms. Rhoda T. Periodico, Assistant Department Head of Cavite PDRRMO, talked about the Community Risk Assessment (CRA) wherein she emphasized that the first line of response is the barangay and highlighted the participatory CRA as a method to determine potential hazards as well as the CRA tools such as the hazard analysis matrix.

 After the training, Ms. Jelyne F. Gealone, Project Manager of CDP, via Zoom teleconferencing, briefed the participants on what will transpire during the 3-day community immersion at Bacoor City, Rosario, and Maragondon in Cavite. She further reiterated that CDP will be there with them as assessors and as mentors. This will also be a chance for them to further hone their skills as future trainers of community-based disaster risk reduction and management. They were also reminded by Ms. Gealone that their ultimate goal is to strengthen the community's capacity to effectively prepare for any disaster. (GCRSison) 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan (left) giving her welcome message and Ms. Angelita R. Zamora (right) discussing the BLS and CPR 
 Demonstration of CPR and Abdominal thrust 
 Ms. Angelita R. Zamora (left) demonstrating the proper application of bandage and Ms. Rhoda T. Periodico (right) discussing the topic on CRA. 
 The participants of the 2-day training on Basic Life Supports and Community Risk Assessment

----- DOC | Estebat , Agreda serve as Resource Speakers on the Capacity Building Enhancement of Trece Martires City LGU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/22/estebat-agreda-serve-as-resource-speakers-on-the-capacity-building-enhancement-of-trece-martires-city-lgu/ | 2022-11-11 -----
Ms. Raecel A. Estebat of the university's GAD Resource Center (GADRC) and Mr. King David J. Agreda of the CvSU Cavite City Campus served as resource speakers at the seminar-workshop of the Trece Martires City Local Government Unit (TMC LGU) on gender mainstreaming and gender analysis and GA tools conducted on November 8-11, 2022, at Sherwood Hills, Brgy. Cabezas, Trece Martires City, Cavite.

 The first day of the activity focused on discussions about the basic GAD orientation talked about by Mr. Agreda and the use of gender-fair language by Ms. Estebat. Moreover, Mr. Agreda oriented the participants on the localization of the Magna Carta of Women, gender analysis, and GA tools, specifically, the implementation of the Harmonized GAD Guidelines (HGDG) during the second day of the event.

 The participants were divided into six groups later on for the workshop on how to administer the HGDG design checklist using the sample proposals provided followed by the presentation of the outputs of the attendees.

 Gender Mainstreaming Orientation administering the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF) and Gender-Responsive LGU (GeRL) Assessment Tool were the highlights of day three in which Ms. Estebat discussed each descriptor of the GA tools and the possible means of verification for each descriptor.

 On the last day of the activity, participants were divided into four groups to utilize the GeRL Assessment Tool to analyze the gender responsiveness of their policies, actions, procedures, and goals.

 Following that, participants presented their outputs and highlighted their identified gaps through the LGU Action Point for consideration in establishing their next GAD Plan and Budget, the next step of the activity wherein identified gaps would be addressed.

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco of GADRC facilitated the four-day activity attended by 24 female and 10 male members of TMC LGU's GFPS which seeks to capacitate its members on gender equality and women empowerment. (MCPSioco) 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat (left) and Mr. King David J. Agreda (right) led the capacity-building enhancement for the GADFPS of TMC LGU. 
 The participants of the Capacity Building Enhancement for the members of the GADFPS of TMC LGU.

----- DOC | Balinado hailed as Pinoy Science STAR | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/11/09/balinado-hailed-as-pinoy-science-star/ | 2022-11-09 -----
After securing a spot as one of the top 10 finalists in the Pinoy Science STAR (Science and Technology Advocate for Research) Camp 2022, Mr. Lloyd O. Balinado, a faculty member from the College of Arts and Sciences – Department of Biological Sciences, was among the three hailed Pinoy Science STARs, as announced by Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Industry, Energy, and Emerging Technology Research and Development's (DOST-PCIEERD) during the awarding ceremony held on 04 November  2022, at Sheraton Manila Hotel, Pasay City.

 In collaboration with TikTok Philippines, DOST-PCIEERD launched the Pinoy Science STAR Camp 2022 in August 2022 in search of potential science communicators who will promote the scientific innovations of the council to the public through social media platforms.

 For his final entry, (which can be viewed here: https://tinyurl.com/4wxe87p8 ), Mr. Balinado discussed the Cellula TM Growth Chamber, a plant tissue culture growth chamber that aims to aid the mass production of coffee and  makapuno  plantlets in a controlled, optimized, and suitable environmental conditions such as temperature, photoperiod, and relative humidity (RH) which is crucial for plant growth and development. This technology project was funded by DOST-PCIEERD and led by Dr. Ruel M. Mojica and Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, both from the College of Engineering and Information Technology.

 Mr. Balinado together with Mr. Jess Gabriel Belleza of Advanced Device and Materials Testing Laboratory (ADMATEL), Ms. Romieleth Espillardo from Rizal Technological University will be the official content creators of Pinoy Science in all of its social media channels and will have an access to DOST and DOST-PCIEERD learning and development activities and linkages opportunities.

 All the 10 finalists received a certificate, Pinoy Science and DOST-PCIEERD merchandise and TikTok Merchandise while the three winners received 500 USD exclusive perks from TikTok. Special award was presented to Ms. Maricon Clyde Liwan from the University of the Cordilleras (Tiktok's Choice Award), and Mr. Mark Angelou Siega from the University of Mindanao (DOST-PCIEERD's Choice Award). They both received 250 USD worth of exclusive perks.

 Mr. Lloyd O. Balinado (center) receives the certificate from the judges of Pinoy Science Camp 2022. (photo courtesy: Mr. Lloyd Balinado's Facebook post)

----- DOC | Men's Day Interpretative Dance Winners | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/mens-day-interpretative-dance-winners/ | 2022-11-03 -----
In conjunction with the celebration of International Men's Day, the university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) held an Interpretative Dance Contest from 16 September to 27 October 2022.

 The said competition was conducted to empower more men in the Province of Cavite to actively campaign for the eradication of Violence Against Women (VAW), improve gender relations, and promote gender equality using social media as an advocacy platform.

 Six (6) entries were received by the GADRC which were posted on its official Facebook page from October 27 to November 3, 2022, and were assessed based on concept and interpretation (35%), choreography and execution (30%), costume (10%), stage presence (20%), and public impact ( highest number of likes and shares in Facebook ) (5%).

 The set of judges was composed of Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director for Public Affairs and Communications, Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Director for Extension Services, and Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Manager of Innovations and Technology Support Office (ITSO).

 Axcel John B. Yumul, Orlando G. Hisoler Jr., Marlon Nueva, Ryan Joy B. Sabellona, Troy Tapawan A., John Christopher Calderon, Angelo Cullantes ( Saliw ) from Trece Martires City Campus received the third-place award; Ahrn Aurellano, Jhon Louen Bartiana, John Allen D. B. Marbella, and Carl Vincent S. Vingno ( Student Artiste Society ) from Main Campus placed second; and Patrick Jayson V.C. Olaes and Joey Jr. P. Ballat, Thomas Isaiah Tee, Lance Adolven Ander, Kenji Baldedomar, and Renz Sato Amaro ( Queki ) from Cavite City Campus got the first place. (MCPSioco) 

 The participants of the Interpretative Dance Contest 
  

 The winners of the Interpretative Dance Contest 
  

  

 Trece Martires City Campus- Third Place 
  

 Main Campus-Second Place 
  

  

 Cavite City Campus-First Place

----- DOC | TSU benchmarks GADRC, ATBI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/22/tsu-benchmarks-gadrc-atbi/ | 2022-10-27 -----
Officials and staff from Tarlac State University (TSU), led by Dr. Murphy P. Mohammed, Vice President for Research and Extension Services; Dr. Agnes M. Macaraeg; Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Rita E. Pulmano, Gender and Development Director; and Dr. Brigido B. Corpuz, Executive Assistant of the President; visited the University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) and Agri-aqua Technology Business Incubation (ATBI) for a benchmarking activity held on 27 October 2022, at the GADRC-Babaylan Training Room.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, discussed the CvSU MOVE KATROPA and CvSU BookShare Corner through an audio-visual presentation (AVP) and highlighted GADRC's services.

 Following that, Dr. Ruel M. Mojica imparted the services and best practices of ATBI in which he mentioned that it is a DOST-PCAARRD-funded project that promotes creativity, innovation, and techno-preneurship among the university's stakeholders for the development of agriculture-based technology business enterprises that would help in the community's long-term progress. (MCPSioco) 

 A group photo of the officials of Tarlac State University and GADRC.

----- DOC | Members of Indang Association of PWD participate in GADRC Adult CPR Seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/16/members-of-indang-association-of-pwd-participate-in-gadrc-adult-cpr-seminar/ | 2022-10-20 -----
Aiming to develop an understanding of the concept of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) for the members of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc (IAPWDI) the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a seminar on Adult CPR on 20 October 2022, at Babaylan Training Room, GADRC, Cavite State University.

 Part of the objective of the seminar is to establish a foundation for the Persons with Disability (PWD) first aider in the advancement of saving lives in the community and develop knowledge, skills, and attitude in providing immediate care to life-threatening conditions using CPR.

 Mr. Florian H. De Borja, President of IAPWDI, delivered the welcome message expressing his appreciation to all attendees, especially to the Resource Speaker, and GADRC personnel while Ms. Nenita B. Panaligan, a faculty member of the College of Nursing (CoN), discussed the topic.

 She highlighted that training programs such as basic first aid seminars should be conducted for the benefit of persons with disability and demonstrated to the participants how to obtain the pulse and pulse rate, as well as the cycle of the blood flow in the body.  Ms. Panaligan also added that understanding what is going on within a person's body is vital, especially while providing first aid to minimize problems.

 After the discussion, Ms. Panaligan showed how to properly execute CPR and urged the trainees to practice CPR beforehand because it requires a lot of strength and needs proper body posture to execute it effectively. (GCRSison) 

  

 Ms. Panaligan demonstrating the proper execution of CPR.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts the 7th GAD Research Conference | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/12/22/gadrc-conducts-the-7th-gad-research-conference/ | 2022-10-19 -----
The university's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) sponsored the 7 th Gender and Development Research Conference seeking to identify innovative and relevant research results for presentation and publishing on 19 October 2022 at the Babaylan Training Room.

 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension delivered the opening message in which he advised the participants, particularly those who were just starting in research, not to be unduly sensitive to the reactors' comments since he believed that the reactors' feedback would help them enhance their future study. Furthermore, he hoped that reactors would be humane in their criticisms of all the papers that will be presented. He concluded by applauding everyone, believing that presenters and reactors would help each other succeed.

 Following the opening message, Mr. Gian Carlo R. Sison, GADRC Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant, discussed the mechanics of evaluation as well as the objectives, house rules, and program flow while Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, introduced the reactors of the conference composed of Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, a retired Professor VI; Dr. Almira G. Magcawas; Director of Extension Services; and Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, Director of Knowledge Management Center, as well as the participants.

 The presenters of the research conference were given fifteen (15) minutes to discuss their study and additional five (5) minutes were allotted for the questions and suggestions of the reactors. There were fourteen (14) presenters from various campuses, colleges, and units.

 After deliberation, the research study “Ang mga Armadong Kababaihang Filipino at ang Militarismo sa Pilipinas” by Prof. Gil D. Ramos, got the third place; “Breakdowns to Breakthroughs: Growth After Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) of Filipino Women” of Ms. Ainah O. Salcedo secured the second place; and “ISpeak Signs: A Filipino Sign Language Learning Application with Static FSL Recognition for Cavite State University – Cavite City Campus Gender and Development Unit” by Ms. Marie Ann Karen de Guzman, Mr. John Bernard Tinio, Ms. Rei Anne P. Velasco, Mr. King David J. Agreda, and Ms. Teresita R. Tolentino bagged the first place.

 

 On behalf of Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Director for Research, Dr. Louzilla Masana, Assistant Professor III and Faculty Researcher of the Department of Arts, Sciences, Education, and Technology at CvSU General Trias City Campus delivered the closing message commending the event for being extremely significant since it demonstrates colonial work that not only adds information, solutions, and gaps in gender and development but also integrates them in a research institution. She hoped that everyone would continue to strive in research and congratulated everyone for a job well done.

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge of Data Banking and Publication, served as moderator for this activity which was attended by 21 females and 13 males. (MCPSioco) 

 The reactors for the 7th GAD Research Conference: (from L to R) Ms. Marietta C. Mojica, Ms. Agnes C. Francisco, and Ms. Almira G. Magcawas. 
 Prof. Gil D. Ramos with research study titled: “Ang mga Armadong Kababaihang Filipino at ang Militarismo sa Pilipinas” won third place. 
 Ms. Ainah O. Salcedo with resea arch study titled: “Breakdowns to Breakthroughs: Growth After Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) of Filipino Women” won second place. 
 Mr. King David J. Agreda with research study titled: “ISpeak Signs: A Filipino Sign Language Learning Application with Static FSL Recognition for Cavite State University – Cavite City Campus Gender and Development Unit” won first place. 
 The attendees of the 7th GAD Research Conference.

----- DOC | Pre- Employment Seminar 2019 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/17/pre-employment-seminar-2019/ | 2022-10-17 -----
The 2019 Pre- Employment Seminar was conducted by OSAS together with the College Placement Coordinators last October 16, 2019 at the CvSU International Convention Center.

 The main objective of the activity is to help our graduating students more prepare and knowledgeable as they enter the world of work.

 There were one thousand eight hundred twenty graduating students (1, 820) who attended the said event:

 
 
 
   COLLEGE 
 ESTIMATED NUMBER OF GRADUAT ING STUDENTS 
 NUMBER OF GRADUATING STUDENTS ATTENDED 

 
 College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources 
   120 
 80 

 
 College of Arts and Sciences 
 166 
 153 

 
 College of Criminal Justice 
 80 
 73 

 
 College of Education 
 329 
 310 

 
 College of Engineering and Information Technology 
   1009 
 785 

 
 College of Economics, Management and Development Studies 
   400 
 305 

 
 College of Nursing 
 79 
 78 

 
 College of Sports Physical Education and Recreation 
   59 
 27 

 
 College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 
   12 
 9 

 
   TOTAL 
   2,254 
 1,820 

 
 
 As the seminar started, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Academic Affairs rendered his Welcoming Remarks and Inspirational Message.

 Three interesting and informative topics were discussed by three knowledgeable and equipped notable resource speakers. They were Mr. Kim Chua, Managing Director of Jobs180.com from Pasig City. Mr. Chua discussed, “Resume Preparation, Personality Development, and Tips for Interview”. Ms. Ruth Arevalo and Engr. Carlo Merilos, both Senior Labor Employment Officer from the Department of Labor and Employment, Trece Martires City discussed about “Basic Labor Rights and In Demand Occupations”.

 Registration Area 

 

  

 

  

 During Registration 

 

  

 

  

 Invocation and National Anthem 

 

  

 

  

 Welcoming Remarks and Inspirational Message   

 Dr. Camilo A. Polinga , Vice President for Academic Affairs 

 

  

 

  

 Seminar Proper 

 Ms. Ruth Arevalo, Senior Labor Officer of the Department of Labor and Employment, Trece Martires City, Cavite discussing “Basic Labor Rights and In Demand Occupations” during the morning session 

 

  

 

  

 Mr. Kim Chua, Managing Director of Jobs180.com elaborating the topics on “Resume Preparation, Personality Development, and Tips for Interview” 

 

  

 

  

 Engr. Carlo Merilos, Senior Labor Officer of the Department of Labor and Employment, Trece Martires City, Cavite discussing “Basic Labor Rights and In Demand Occupations” during the afternoon session 

 

  

 

  

 Receiving of Certificate of Appreciation and a simple token

----- DOC | Job Fair 2019 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/17/job-fair-2019/ | 2022-10-17 -----
The Office of Student Affairs and Services has successfully conducted the Job Fair 2019 at the University Gymnasium last April 25, 2019, 8am to 5pm. It was participated by sixty (86) companies and schools and three thousand one hundred eleven (3,111) graduating students. It was also the first time that Pag-Ibig Fund and Social Security System joined with the Philhealth in which they process the student's registration for membership with the respective government agencies.

 Another milestone of the Office of Student Affairs and Services together with the College Placement Coordinators for the event benefited the students a lot. In fact, many of our graduating students will be hired right after their graduation.

 
 
 
   
 No. of Attendees 

 
 College of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment, and Natural Resources 
 203 

 
 College of Arts and Sciences 
 442 

 
 College of Criminal Justice 
 79 

 
 College of Education 
 594 

 
 College of Engineering and Information Technology 
 966 

 
 College of Economics, Management and Development Studies 
 608 

 
 College of Nursing 
 115 

 
 College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 
 90 

 
 College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences 
 14 

 
 TOTAL 
   3,111 

 
 
 REGISTRATION 

 

 

  

 JOB SEEKING 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 INTERVIEW 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 GOVERNMENT AGENCIES 

 PAG-IBIG FUND 

 

  

 PHILHEALTH 

 

  

 SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM 

 

  

 SOME OF COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 
 List of Participating Companies for Job Fair 2019 

 April 25, 2019 – University Gymnasium 

 Government Service Agency 

 
 Philhealth

 Social Security System

 Pag-Ibig Fund

 
 Food and Beverage Marketing Company 

 
 Gourmet Farm

 
 Banking and Finance 

 
 City Savings Bank

 
 Cooperative 

 
 Sorosoro Ibaba Development Cooperative Inc

 
 Insurance 

 
 Sunlife

 
  

 Health Care Companies 

 
 Asian Hospital and Medical Center

 Dasmariñas City Medical Center

 Silang Specialists

 Paul Hospital Cavite, Inc.

 Halycon Marine Healthcare System

 Tagaytay Medical Center

 
 Construction Companies 

 
 Duraville Realty Development Corp.

 Dreambuilders Pro, Inc.

 Chemdent Industrial and Construction

 Eagle Cement Corporation

 M Consunji, Inc.

 
 Schools and Educational Institutions 

 
 Holy Child Jesus Montessori

 Angelicum Immanuel Montessori

 Notre Dame of Trece Martires

 Diocese of Imus Catholic Educational System

 Gunwoo Edu, Inc.

 Gateway Integrated School

 
  

 Hotels, Resort and Golf Course Clubs 

 
 Orchard Golf Course and Country Club

 Splendido Taal Golf Club Corp.

 One Tagaytay Place

 
 Retail/Trading Companies 

 
 Waltermart Supermarket, Inc.

 Savemore-Mendez

 Super Shopping Market Inc.

 Super Value Inc.-Sm Supermarket-Dasmariñas

 ACE Hardware Philippines Inc.

 Metro Main Star Asia, Corp. (The Sm Store)

 
 BPO/Business Solutions Companies 

 
 Com

 Sykes

 Cognizant Technology Solutions Philippines, Inc.

 Accenture Inc.

 Iqor

 Sutherland

 Teletech

 Factset Philippines

 E-Performax

 SPI Global

 Workbank

 Alorica Philippines, Inc.

 
 Industries 

 
 Artesyn Embedded Technologies

 Activations Adverstising

 ADP Philippines Inc.

 Agri-Pacific Corp.

 ALC Group Of Companies

 Amkor Technology, Inc.

 Aspac International Inc.

 Blaine Corporation

 Camel Appliances Manufacturing Corp,

 Can Asia, Inc.

 Canon Business Machines (Philippines) Inc.

 City Savings Bank

 Daiichi Properties

 Delbros Group

 Euro-Med Laboratories Phil. Inc.

 Finden Technologies Inc.

 Foremost Farms Inc.

 Golden Haven

 Gourmet Farms

 GP Synergia Technologies Corp.

 Hocheng

 Iriso Electronics Philippines Inc.

 JAE Philippines, Inc.

 JEA Steel Industries, Inc.

 Jetbest Animal Nutrition and Healthcare Inc.

 Kooapps Philippines

 Leentech Netwiork Solutions Inc.

 Mom's Haus Of Mushroom

 Motortrade

 Nakashima Philippines

 Netrust Philippines Corporation

 Nutra-Tech Biopharma

 Optimized Customer Solutions Inc.

 Optum Global Solutions

 Papercore Specialists Corporation

 Philchema Inc.

 Philcopy

 Poultry Max Omnis

 Schneider Electric's

 Seaoil Philippines, Inc.

 Sunjin

 Teamglobal Facility Solutions, Inc.

 Technoalloy Tool Technologies Inc.

 Wilcon Depot

----- DOC | GADRC holds counseling 101 and case management training workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/gadrc-holds-counseling-101-and-case-management-training-workshop/ | 2022-10-13 -----
In line with the goals of developing a deeper understanding of gender-based violence, proper conduct of counseling sessions, behavior patterns of an effective counselor, and organization of referrals for cases, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted a two-day training workshop on counseling 101 and case management of victims of gender-based violence for GAD coordinators and alternates on 12-13 October 2022, at the Babaylan Training Room, GAD Resource Center.

 

 GADRC Director Susan G. Tan emphasized in her opening message that as GAD coordinators and advocates, they should be trained on how to appropriately handle reports and situations of gender-based violence and provide the proper support to the victims and make referrals, accordingly.

 Mr. Gino A. Cabrera, CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool Batch 2, in his discussion about Gender Responsive Mental Health Awareness and Stress Managemen t gave emphasis on being mindful and mind full . He also briefly discussed the different contexts of gender responsiveness and cited that mental illness is not a trend and is not always physically visible.

 In the afternoon session, Mr. Cabrera discussed Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and the psychosocial needs of its victims. He also explained that gender biases manifest in economic marginalization, political subordination, gender stereotyping, multiple burdens, violence against women, and obstacles to personhood in development.

 Several approaches to handling VAWC victims were the focus of the second-day session. Mr. Cabrera talked about Psychological First Aid (PFA) along with skills and action principles, which he characterized as a collection of skills and information that may be utilized to support individuals who are in distress, to make people feel calm and capable of coping with tough circumstances.

 Part of the workshop was the performance of psychodrama on GBV cases, in which Mr. Cabrera prepared five (5) different scenarios for the participants to depict requiring them to use what they had learned throughout the session. It was then followed by an oath-taking of participants on becoming trained psychological first aid providers.

 

 Office of the Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) Dean Sharon P. Mojica-Isip greeted the participants who will become OSAS partners for being able to meet the training objectives in her closing message. She said that the training helped them develop and strengthen their behavior for being a paraprofessional counselor, and being one, they now know how to listen and refer. She left a statement that when two ears are combined, it forms a heart, and counselors must listen with a heart. (MCPSioco) 

 The participants during the performance of psychodrama. 
 The participants took an oath as a certified psychological first aid provider 
 The participants of the Day 1 Activity. 
 The participants of the Day 2 Activity.

----- DOC | SPRINT facilitates skills training on kaong production and processing technology for CNSC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/06/sprint-facilitates-skills-training-on-kaong-production-and-processing-technology-for-cnsc/ | 2022-10-06 -----
The Sugar Palm Research, Information, and Trade (SPRINT) Center facilitated a three-day skills training on kaong production and processing technology for Camarines Norte State College (CNSC) on September 28-30, 2022 at Hostel Tropicana, Cavite State University – Don Severino de las Alas Campus, Indang, Cavite. The training was attended by 10 faculty and staff of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, CNSC-Labo Campus, headed by Director Ricardo D. Diño and Dean Arden Peejay L. Ezaki.

 The overview of the CvSU-SPRINT Center and Introduction to the Kaong Plant were discussed by Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, director of SPRINT Center while Mr. Jhon Laurence B. Herrera imparted Kaong Sap Tapping Process and Harvesting. Right after the discussion, a field demonstration on kaong sap tapping process and harvesting was facilitated by Mr. Joel M. Astudillo and Mr. Florencio C. Flores.

 On the second day, Engr. Richelle Mae D. Olpot-Mendoza from the College of Engineering and Information Technology – Department of Food and Agricultural Training discussed kaong sugar and vinegar processing, which was followed by a hands-on activity on kaong sugar making. Meanwhile, Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, Manager of CvSU – Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) oriented the participants on licensing agreements and technology transfer.

 The participants also visited the technology adaptors of SPRINT Center – Magallanes Women's Club Cooperative in Magallanes, Cavite, and Queentown Farm in Sitio Portugal, Barangay Tambo Malaki, Indang, Cavite. The training was concluded with the awarding of certificates to the participants.

 The two institutions are set to sign a Memorandum of Agreement/Understanding soon. ( Jhon Laurence B. Herrera )

 For. Junser P. Magpantay, director of SPRINT Center, delivering his lecture on the Overview of SPRINT Center and Introduction to Kaong Plant. 
 Camarines Norte State College training participants and SPRINT Center staff at the 2-hectare kaong plantation of Queentown Farm. 
  

 Field demonstration on kaong sap tapping facilitated by Mr. Florencio C. Flores of the SPRINT Center.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts webinar series on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2023/03/01/gadrc-conducts-webinar-series-on-responsible-parenthood-and-family-planning/ | 2022-10-05 -----
The university's Gender and Development Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar series entitled: “Webinar on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning” on 4-5 October 2022, via Zoom video conferencing and Facebook Live.

 The activity aims to educate faculty members and employees of the university on responsible parenthood, reproductive health, and family planning and to influence male university personnel to become CvSU MOVE KATROPA advocates.

 College of Nursing Dean Evelyn M. Del Mundo welcomed the participants of the webinar series and said that the activity will educate the community and other stakeholders including university officials, faculty members, staff, and students on the abovementioned topics. She also congratulated the GADRC for such initiating activities and for a job well done.

 

 CvSU MOVE KATROPA President, Mr. King David J. Agreda talked about the elements of a Good Husband and Wife Relationship in which he emphasized that once a couple ties the knot, they become one and are officially in a partnership. He urged the participants to avoid comparing each other's families because each family is unique.

 Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez and Ms. Hazelyn H. Dela Cruz, CvSU MOVE KATROPA Trainers, discussed Responsible Parenting and Parent-Child Relationship and Communication , respectively. Ms. Perez explained that being a parent entails a responsibility to own's child/children, and the skills, experiences, and obligations involved in raising and teaching a kid are referred to as responsible parenting . She also enumerated the roles of expectant mothers and expectant fathers. Meanwhile, Ms. Dela Cruz discussed that when two people unite in marriage and have children, they will discover both their similarities and differences, she included the different parenting styles, including sanguine, choleric, melancholy, phlegmatic, authoritarian, authoritative, permissive, and uninvolved. ' Respecting individual diversity is the foundation of a healthy parent-child connection' , she added.

 (From L:) Mr. King David J. Agreda, Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, and Ms. Hazelyn Dela Cruz during their discussion of responsible parenthood. 
 Ms. Perez talked about home management in the afternoon session and described it as a process of arranging the use of resources to achieve the desired outcomes that are beneficial to everyone and that aside from the fundamental needs, family goals may include the maintenance, education, and the full development of each member's potential. Mr. Agreda continued to discuss the same topic and identified other family resources. Moreover, he cited that stress management is essential for maintaining harmony and tranquility in the household, and couples should communicate, establish family norms, agree on expectations of one another, carry out their separate duties and obligations, and perfect their parenting abilities.

 On the other hand, CvSU MOVE KATROPA Trainer Joshua A. Guevarra discussed the role and influence of parents on their children's future by accentuating how to support a child through each stage of growth. He further said that in all phases of development, the involvement of parents and families is essential, as they contribute to their children's whole growth.

 

 On the second day of the webinar series, Mr. Leonard V. Paunil, another trainer from Carmona Campus, talked about the topic of Gender Issues in Decision Making on the Use of Family Planning . There, he discussed that respect, trust, support, honesty and accountability, responsible parenting, shared responsibility, economic cooperation, negotiation, and justice should be the focus of families in addressing challenges with gender recognition. He stressed that males should actively assist in child upbringing and housekeeping.

 

 Ms. Merry Rose J. Olegario, Faculty Member from the College of Nursing, with Ms. Dela Cruz tackled the Importance and Benefits of Family Planning . Ms. Dela Cruz emphasized that family planning benefits the father by alleviating the weight of his obligation in sustaining his family because he will be providing only the number of children he can afford to support and giving him time for his own personal progress and it provides women with opportunities for increased education and engagement in public life. She added that having smaller families allows parents to spend more time with each child and that children with fewer siblings tend to stay in school longer than those with numerous siblings.

 Ms. Olegario further stated the different methods of family planning, how it helps people from preventing conception using a range of contraceptive methods and services, and that natural/fertility awareness-based family planning approaches rely on the knowledge of the start and end of a woman's menstrual cycle period.

 

 Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez, Dean of College of Medicine congratulated GADRC on the enormous attendance of the webinar since day one, not only via Zoom but also during Facebook Live. She described the session as topical, instructive, and engaging during her closing message. She also shared that during her time as a former Evaluation and Monitoring Officer of the Family Organization of the Philippines, family planning was primarily focused on the contraceptive technique and ensuring that the family size is affordable. Dr. Galvez said that attending this webinar serves as a reminder that everyone can be and be an advocate for responsible parenting and family planning. (KABustamante)

----- DOC | GADRC holds inclusive DRRM training dubbed as KASALI TAYO | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/20/gadrc-holds-inclusive-drrm-training-dubbed-as-kasali-tayo/ | 2022-10-01 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center thru it's “ KAbalikat sa SAnayan at LIngap sa mga TAong nasa laylaYan ng lipunan tungo sa paglagO ” ( KASALI TAYO ) program sought the active involvement of the vulnerable sectors, such as persons with disabilities, LGBTQs, senior citizens, and solo parents in Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (DRRM) planning to make it inclusive.

 Together with the Provincial Person's with Disability Affairs Office (PPDAO), Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office (PSWDO), and Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (PDRRMO) of the Province of Cavite and the Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP), a five-day training of trainers (ToT)on Inclusive Community Based Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (ICBDRRM) was conducted from September 27 to October 1, 2022, at the Babaylan Training Room, GAD Resource Center, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite.

 Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta, Ms. Eena Geslaine A. Barrun, Ms. Jelyne F. Gealone, Ms. Marjorie R. Romero, Ms. Nathalie Malabato-Saguido, and Ms. Lieke Goojier from Center for Disaster Preparedness served as resource speakers during the 5-day ToT.

 The said training program focused on the inclusion of the most vulnerable sectors in disaster planning and preparation, as well as raising awareness of each sector for the different risks and catastrophic events that can occur at any moment.

 Participants who completed and satisfactorily passed the 5-day training session received

a Certificate of Completion equivalent to 40 Hours of technical training, an advocacy polo shirt and a “ Lahat Handa” Training Manual.

 The first batch of trainees, composed of 22 participants coming from the most at-risk groups – PWD, senior citizens, solo parents, and LGBTQIA+, will form the first pool of trainers who will go to the community and equip the marginalized sector with the indispensable skills needed for disaster preparedness and resiliency. (MCPSioco) 

 The GADRC and CDP Team 
  

 A group photo with the GADRC's partner agencies. 
  

 

  

 The participants of the Training of Trainers on Inclusive Community-Based Risk Reduction.

----- DOC | AACCUP grants BA Journalism level IV accreditation status | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/27/aaccup-grants-ba-journalism-level-iv-accreditation-status/ | 2022-09-27 -----
The Bachelor of Arts in Journalism (BA Journalism) program of the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) is now a certified Level IV Re-accredited undergraduate program by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP), Inc.

 The program underwent scrutiny by the assessors from AACCUP through a virtual survey visit held on May 4 to 6, 2022, and granted certification of being a Level IV program effective May 16, 2022 to May 15, 2027. The University now has three Level IV programs – Bachelor of Science in Agriculture of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources; Bachelor of Science in Biology, and Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, both under CAS.

 As stated in the AACCUP Accreditation Manual, “Level IV re-accredited status is awarded to programs which are highly respected as very high-quality academic programs in the Philippines and with prestige and authority comparable to similar programs in excellent foreign universities.”

 Meanwhile, four (4) other undergraduate programs were also reviewed by AACCUP accreditors alongside BA Journ during the same period. The Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering and Doctor of Veterinary Medicine programs were granted Level III Re-accredited status; while the Bachelor of Science in Accountancy and Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering were given Level II Re-accredited certification.

 On the other hand, the Doctor for Philosophy in Management, a graduate program of the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies, and the Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English program of Gen. Trias Campus were likewise subjected to an accreditation visit by AACCUP on June 13 to 17, 2022, and were granted candidate status from July 1, 2022, to June 30, 2024.

----- DOC | Tan, Estebat talk about anti-sexual harassment, safe spaces, and gender-fair language during faculty orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/20/tan-estebat-talk-about-anti-sexual-harassment-safe-spaces-and-gender-fair-language-during-faculty-orientation/ | 2022-09-21 -----
Gender and Development Resource Center Director, Dr. Susan G. Tan, and In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat served as resource speakers during the 2022 Employee's Orientation Cum Capability Enhancement for Teachers on 20-21 September at the International Convention Center.

 In her discussion of the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 (RA 7877), Dr. Tan emphasized that the victim's perception of the situation as 'wanted' or 'unwanted' will determine whether it is a form of sexual harassment or not.

 Dr. Tan also said that the all employees, applicants or candidates for employment, students, and those who are undergoing training or education (trainees) are all covered by the said law. She enumerated that the possible offenders under the law can be a teacher, instructor, professor, coach, or trainer in school; employer, manager, a supervisor in the workplace; or any other person who has authority, influence, or moral ascendancy over another in either venue.

 In addition, Dr. Tan discussed the salient features of the Safe Spaces Act (RA 11313). She explained the difference between the Safe Spaces Act and the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act to avoid confusion and added that the former is directly addressed to avoid gender-based harassment. Meanwhile, she also stated that under RA 7877, an offender must have authority, influence, or moral ascendancy over the victim of sexual harassment while RA 11313 dispenses with this requirement.

 Meanwhile, Ms. Estebat discussed the importance of using gender-fair language to avoid discrimination against women or men when discussing a topic that applies to both sexes and the legal mandates relating to the said matter. 

 Ms. Estebat also gave suggestions on how to use non-sexist language and samples of discrimination using graphics/photos in instructional and other reading materials and discussed the sensitive language when talking to, referring to, or working with the community of persons with disability (PWD) and the importance of respectful disability language. ( MCPSioco )

----- DOC | GADRC conducts 2023 Planning and Budgeting Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/10/24/gadrc-conducts-2023-planning-and-budgeting-workshop/ | 2022-09-21 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) successfully conducted the 2023 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop on 19-21 September 2022 at the Babaylan Training Room

 Prior to the workshop, the 28 participants (16 females and 12 males) were oriented by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, in-charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation on the legal mandates and guidelines for the plan and budget preparation. She also discussed the six steps of gender mainstreaming, which are conscientization, advocacy, competency development, capacity building, operationalization, and institutionalization.

 After the discussion, the GAD Coordinators proceeded to write their respective college/campus/unit's 2023 GAD plan and budget which was presented on the next day as part of the workshop continuation.

 Ms. Rowena Peñalba, Head of the Cashier Department, delivered the closing remarks on behalf of Ms. Asuncion R. Reyes, Officer-In-Charge of the Financial Management Services Office (FMSO).

 The 2023 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop aims to assist the attendees in identifying programs, projects, and activities that will address gender issues in the university and its adopted communities, as well as increase the participants' knowledge on the value of the GAD program as a tool in establishing a highly gender-responsive institution.  (MCPSioco) 

 The participants of the 2023 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop.

----- DOC | CvSU strengthens QMS, undergoes surveillance audit | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/07/cvsu-strengthens-qms-undergoes-surveillance-audit/ | 2022-09-07 -----
On 5 September 2022, the University's quality management system (QMS) was subjected to an onsite surveillance audit by its partner auditing firm, SOCOTEC Certification Philippines, Inc. The audit team verified the compliance to standards of the university's processes on the areas of management of learning, research and extension, health services, security services, human resources, financial management services, external and business affairs, procurement, guidance, library, control of documented information, internal quality audit, and management review. The audit team was composed of Ms. Merian Domingo as the lead auditor, and Ms. Mercedelin Flores, Ms. Anna Manlangit, and Mr. Mark Ilagan as support auditors.

 During the closing meeting, the auditors highlighted positive feedbacks in the areas of top management commitment, control of documented information, and provision of resources especially library facilities. The results of the conducted surveillance audit will serve as a catalyst to continuously improve the operations of the institution.

 The university, through Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, OIC to the Office of the University President, commits to fully support and monitor the performance of its QMS.

----- DOC | OUR, OVPPD conduct workshop on the management and utilization of the CvSU Enrolment System | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/08/25/our-ovppd-conduct-workshop-on-the-management-and-utilization-of-the-cvsu-enrolment-system/ | 2022-08-25 -----
The Office of the University Registrar (OUR), together with the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development (OVPPD) Management Information System (MIS) Unit, conducted a 3-day workshop/training on the management and utilization of the CvSU Enrolment System.

 Prof. Russel L. Villacarlos, resource person and Head of the MIS Unit, OVPPD, demonstrated the installation, configuration, usage and debugging of the server and enrolment system. Meanwhile, Mr. Rabii Randelson A. Guevarra from the Office of the University Registrar, discussed the enrollment processes which include assessment, registration and enrollment validation. Ms. Edwina O. Roderos, University Registrar, accommodated the questions and inquiries of the participants and also reminded them about the guidelines and processes of enrollment. Prof. Mark Philip M. Sy, an IT professor who developed the CvSU Admission System, presented the data from the admission system that are necessary for student enrollment.

 The workshop/training was held at the Central Computer Laboratory, DIT Bldg., College of Engineering and Information Technology on August 22, 23 and 25, 2022; and was attended by MIS staff, IT staff, and campus registrars from the satellite campuses of the University.

 Prof. Russel L. Villacarlos assisting the participants 
 Mr. Rabii Randelson A. Guevarra discussing the enrolment process 
 Ms. Edwina O. Roderos answering queries of participants 
 The participants of Workshop on the Management and Utilization of the Enrolment System

----- DOC | Estebat, Agreda, Grueso attend CALABARZON GAD resource pool levelling session | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/22/estebat-agreda-grueso-attend-calabarzon-gad-resource-pool-levelling-session/ | 2022-08-12 -----
Ms. Raecel A. Estebat of GAD Resource Center, Mr. King David J. Agreda of CvSU Cavite City Campus, and Ms. Evelyn F. Grueso of CvSU College of Education attends the CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool (CGRP) Batch 2 Levelling Session on August 10-12, 2022, at The Bayleaf Cavite, Gen. Trias City, Cavite. The levelling session sponsored by the Regional Development Council through its Regional GAD Committee is the final step for them to be certified as a GAD technical assistance provider in CALABARZON.

 Participants to this three-day levelling session were from the various LGUs, RLAs, and SUCs from CALABARZON.

 Esteemed resource speakers from the CGRP Batch 1 and Members of the National GAD Resource Pool discussed GAD related topics and laws such as Basic GAD concepts, SOGIESC, Gender Analysis and GA Tools, Gender Mainstreaming and GEMF, GeRL Tool, HGDG, and Local and National GAD Planning and Budgeting on the first two days of the session. They also gave tips on how to be an effective resource speaker.

 Mock demo for both face-to-face and online simulation were done on the third day of the session. (Raecel A. Estebat)

 Participants of the CGRP Levelling Session with the organizers and resource speakers

----- DOC | CvSU-CEMDS alumnus, one of the 2022 Metrobank Foundation's 10 Outstanding Filipinos | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/08/12/cvsu-cemds-alumnus-one-of-the-2022-metrobank-foundations-10-outstanding-filipinos/ | 2022-08-12 -----
“Outstanding Filipinos are defined by character, competence, and compassion. They embody the meaning of “Beyond Excellence” for rendering service above and beyond their call of duty as educators, peacekeepers, and defenders. Their contributions speak of not only caliber, but also of heart and community presence .” –  Aniceto M. Sobrepeña, President, Metrobank Foundation Inc.

 Cavite State University alumnus, P/Capt Rosalino E. Panlaqui was hailed as one of the 2022 Metrobank Foundation's 10 Outstanding Filipinos. The winners were introduced to the public via a virtual press conference on August 4, 2022. As Jalajala, Rizal Municipal Police Station Chief, P/Capt Panlaqui “implemented the adoption and institutionalization of programs empowering citizens to improve their conditions.”

 Other awardees include four teachers and five other men and women in uniform. According to the foundation's official Facebook page, “the teacher-awardees have proven that mentorship is crucial in a learner's journey, especially during a crisis; while the soldiers and police-officer awardees, on the other hand, live up to the values of industry and the integrity of their institutions.”

 Each awardee will receive ₱1 million cash prize, a golden medallion, and The Flame trophy during the conferment ceremonies which will be held in September, coinciding with the celebration of Metrobank's 60th anniversary.

 The final board of judges consisted of Senator Grace Poe (Chairperson); Associate Justice Ramon Paul Hernando (Co-chairperson); CNN Philippines president Benjamin Ramos (media); Robinsons Land president and chief executive officer Frederick Go (business sector); Coca-Cola Foundation Philippines president Ma. Cecilia Alcantara (civil society organizations); and International Association of Business Communicators Philippines chairman Joe Zaldarriaga (professional organizations).

 P/Capt Panlaqui is a BS Business Management major in Economics Batch 2003 graduate from the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies. He has been serving the police force for 16 years now.

----- DOC | AACCUP conducts Level IV Phase II virtual visit to MAEd, BSHM and BSIT | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/08/03/aaccup-conducts-level-iv-phase-ii-virtual-visit-to-maed-bshm-and-bsit/ | 2022-08-03 -----
The Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines, Inc. (AACCUP) with Dr. Arnel B. Millesca as Overall Coordinator, along with Dr. Jaime M. Forbes, Dr. Manuel A. Sanchez Jr., Dr. Reynaldo G. Salamat, Dr. Ronald M. Ramirez, and Dr. May Ann C. Pulgo currently conducts 4th Survey Visit (Phase 2) for the Master of Arts in Education program of the Main Campus and Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management and Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology programs of CvSU-CCAT Campus.

 The three-day visit, which will conclude on August 5, formally opened today and was attended by the members of the different local task forces and Administrative officials of the University.

----- DOC | Graphic novel making contest winners | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/22/graphic-novel-making-contest-winners/ | 2022-07-26 -----
The university's GAD Resource Center conducted a Graphic Novel Making Contest in conjunction with the Anti-Human Trafficking in Person Campaign from April to June 2022. The activity aimed to raise participants' and readers' awareness and knowledge of the issue of human trafficking by assisting them in understanding the realities of human trafficking, risk factors and vulnerabilities associated with human trafficking, online sexual exploitation of children, and many more.

 The ten entries received by the GADRC were judged based on relevance to the theme (40%), originality (30%), creativity (15%), and design and composition (15%).

 The winners were announced during the seminar-workshop on GEDSI Mainstreaming of the Administrative Council at Batis Aramin Resort and Hotel in Lucban, Quezon and the awarding of winners were conducted during the 2 nd Technical Working Group Meeting of the GADRC.

 Receiving the third place award were Mr. Mayk Rafael B. Panganiban, Ms. Katherine Anne Albay, and Ms. Shaina Vigonte of Carmona Campus with a novel titled “Yumi”; second place award were received by Mr. Aldrian Barias, Mr. Rae Niño Pelagia, Mr. Carl Andrei Alquero, Ms. Rafaela Janna Babaran, and Ms. Rickie Cathleen Javier of Imus Campus with a novel titled “Kahon”; and the first place award were received by Mr. Edward Emmanuel Tanjuan, Mr. James Alancado, and Ms. Melchie Jane R. Dacillo of Bacoor Campus with a novel titled “Sex-Trafficking”. (MCPSioco) 

 Third Place Winner from Carmona Campus 
  

 Second Place Winner from Imus Campus 
  

 First Place Winner from Bacoor Campus

----- DOC | Admin officials participate in tree planting activity | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/24/admin-officials-participate-in-tree-planting-activity/ | 2022-07-24 -----
The CvSU Administrative Council members planted 50 kaong ( Arenga pinnata ) and 50 dao ( Dracontomelon dao ) seedlings at the New Acquired Land on 18 July 2022.

 Officer-in-Charge (OIC) to the Office of the University President Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro with the Vice President for Administrative Support and Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, VP for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, OIC to the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, and OIC to the Office of the Vice President for External and Business Affairs Ms. Lolita G. Herrera led the planting of trees.

 Organized by the University Pollution Control Office along with the Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade (SPRINT) Center and CvSU Future Earth Philippines Committee, the activity is also in support of the Center's mission to increase the kaong population in Cavite. For. Junser Magpantay, director of SPRINT facilitated the activity. ( CMGRafols )

 Photo opportunity before proceeding to the planting site.

----- DOC | GSOLC alumni receive international awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/24/gsolc-alumni-receive-international-awards/ | 2022-07-24 -----
Three alumni from the Graduate School and Open Learning College (GSOLC) were recently recognized internationally for their excellence in their respective fields of profession.

 Dr. Eleuterio “Ely” F. Timbol Jr., who earned his PhD in Education major in Educational Management, was one of the 54 public school teachers in the State of New York who received the Governor's Empire State Excellence in Teaching Award as a recognition for their exemplary teaching and dedication to student's success announced by Governor Kathy Hochul on 15 June 2022.

 Dr. Timbol served as a high school teacher and Mathematics Coordinator in the Philippines for five (5) years before spending his 19-year teaching career in the USA. He is now the Math Lead Teacher at the High School for Law Enforcement and Public Safety in Jamaica, Queens, New York. In 2015, he also received the Americas' Finest Teacher Award accorded by the Association of Filipino Teachers in America (AFTA).

 Meanwhile, two other alumni from GS-OLC were also acknowledged for their excellence in research and outstanding leadership during the 2 nd United Federation of Filipino-American Educators (UNIFFIED Multi-Disciplinary Research Conference International held in New York City, USA on July 7-9, 2022.

 Dr. Aireen Lisama-Arbis, a PhD in Education major in Educational Management graduate at CvSU, was awarded as 2 nd Best Research Presenter for her study titled “ Organizational Commitment, Job and Personal Related Factors, and Turnover Intention of Teachers in Cavite, Philippines ”. The said paper also got the 3 rd Best Research Paper award. She was also accorded the Outstanding Leadership in Education Award during the conference.

 On the other hand, Dr. Christopher Domagtoy Galpa, who earned the same PhD degree in CvSU, was honored with the Outstanding Leadership in Community Service Award at the said event. His research, “ Organizational Culture, Leadership Styles, and Job Performance of Administrators in Local Government-Assisted City Colleges in Cavite, Philippines ”, was hailed as the 2 nd Best Research Paper and him being the 3 rd Best Research Presenter.

 UNIFFIED is a registered non-profit organization in USA and the Philippines that binds Filipino and American educators for professional growth opportunities and provides a pathway for them to worldwide educational and civic projects in partnership with affiliated local, national and international organizations.

 Dr. Eleuterio F. Timbol Jr., Dr. Aireen Lisama-Arbis, and Dr. Christopher D. Galpa.

----- DOC | CvSU joins PH delegation to a partnership mission in Canada | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/24/cvsu-joins-ph-delegation-to-a-partnership-mission-in-canada/ | 2022-07-24 -----
With the goal of developing new partnerships with international education institutions and strengthening international collaboration, CvSU joined the delegation of the Philippine Higher Education Partnership Mission to Canada to participate in the British Columbia International Education Week (BCIEW) sessions and visit selected Canadian education institutions from 22 June to 01 July 2022.

 Director for International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO) Prof. Mariel Mojica-Lising, along with other international relations officers, engaged in activities and workshops organized by the British Columbia Council for International Education (BCCIE) for all the higher education institutions (HEIs) present in the program. Talks on the alliance of Philippine HEIs with BCCIE and strategies of Canadian institutions were also explored.

 Headed by CHED Commissioner Dr. Aldrin Darilag with CHED International Affairs Staff Director Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla, and Canadian Embassy to the Philippines Trade Commissioner Angel Cachuela, a total of sixteen (16) HEI-members of the University Mobility in Asia and the Pacific (UMAP) in the Philippines composed the CHED-partnership mission. The event allowed the International Relations Officers (IROs) to learn the best practices of Canadian HEIs for the improvement of Philippine education in various fields, build new contacts, showcase the Philippine universities, gather intelligence on international education, and develop new global affiliations. ( CMGRafols )

 The Philippine delegation to the partnership mission in Canada. 
 ILCLO Director Mariel Mojica – Lising in action during the partnership mission in Canada.

----- DOC | CvSU participates in SUC Fair 2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/24/cvsu-participates-in-suc-fair-2022/ | 2022-07-24 -----
Cavite State University joined the recently concluded State Universities and Colleges (SUC) Fair 2022 held at SM Mall of Asia (MOA) Music Hall, Pasay City to showcase Don Severino's Aguinaldo Blend Coffee, kaong, and bee products among others.

 With the theme “ Promoting Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Culture & Arts for National Development and Global Competitiveness ”, a total of 81 SUCs from different regions in the country joined the event to highlight their sustained excellence, unified efforts, and competitive standards in the forms of research products and innovations, exhibits, artistic competition, and cultural presentations, among others.

 Plenary talks were also held on the first two days of the activity in which topics such as Entrepreneurship and Product Innovation were discussed by Dr. Carl E. Balita, chairperson of the CEB Group of Companies, and Dr. Napoleon K. Juanillo Jr., assistant secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry, respectively. They were also able to taste the flagship product of CvSU, the Don Severino's Aguinaldo Blend Coffee.

 Dr. J. Prospero “Popoy” E. De Vera III, Commission on Higher Education (CHED) chairperson; Hon. Ferdinand Martin G. Romualdez, majority leader and incoming speaker at the House of Representatives; Dr. Tirso A. Ronquillo, Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC) president; and Dr. Bert J. Tuga, PNU president and PASUC-National Capital Region (NCR) chairperson also graced the opening program of SUC Fair 2022.

 CvSU officials headed by Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, officer-in-charge at the Office of the University President showed their support by visiting the different regional booths especially the Region IV CALABARZON stall.

 The fair was conducted as part of the 28 th founding anniversary celebration of CHED and the 2 nd National Higher Education Day with the PASUC-NCR as the host, and Philippine Normal University (PNU), as the lead institution. ( CMGRafols )

 CvSU products featured at SUC Fair 2022.

----- DOC | Administrative Council participates in seminar-workshop on GEDSI mainstreaming | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/22/administrative-council-participates-in-seminar-workshop-on-gedsi-mainstreaming/ | 2022-07-07 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center successfully conducted a two-day Seminar-Workshop on GEDSI Mainstreaming: Working Together Towards Inclusive Education on July 6-7, 2022, at Batis Aramin Resort and Hotel, Lucban, Quezon, which was attended by the administrative council (small). 

 Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Officer-In-Charge, Office of the University President on her opening message expressed her heartfelt gratitude to everyone and stated her hopes that these efforts may aid in resolving inequities and injustices experienced by the marginalized group. She added that identifying the root causes of discrimination and injustice inside an organization and workplace is important to fostering genuine, long-term, transformative change for well-being and inclusive growth. 

 

 On the first day, Dr. Nathalie Lourdes Africa-Verceles, Director, University of the Philippines Center for Women and Gender Studies (UPCWGS) discussed the fundamentals of SOGIESC and GAD Related Concepts. She urged everyone to be mindful and avoid using phrases that does not accurately reflect a person's gender identification. 

 

 Dr. Marie Aubrey J. Villaceran, Deputy Director for Research and Publication, UPCWGS, provided a quick overview of the definitions of equality and equity, as well as the two elements of GEDSI, the disability and social inclusions. She discussed socially inclusive language, highlighting that the language we use influences how we see the world. 

 

 On the second day, Atty. Evelyn D. Battad, Associate Professor in the College of Law at the University of the Philippines (UP), discussed the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the Convention to Eliminate All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). She also explained the two types of discrimination, de facto and de jure, as well as the various types of discrimination, such as direct and indirect discrimination. 

 

 Dr. Carolyn I. Sobritchea, President, UP, Center for Women's Studies Foundation, Inc. shared the GEDSI and the Philippine Situationer and the planning and delivering of a gender-transformative and inclusive programs and services. She briefly discussed the CEDAW and the Policy Declaration of the Magna Carta of Women (RA 9710) and mentioned the CHED Memorandum Order No. 01, Series 2015, which pursues gender equality in all facets of higher education. 

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC, delivered the closing message on behalf of Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice-President for Research and Extension. She underlined that, even though the CvSU has been named the Most Outstanding State University in GAD Implementation in Calabarzon, there is still a long way to go to achieve and ensure inclusivity in the university. She expected that the participants will support such efforts and raise these issues with top management for these measures to become a university policy. She hoped that the institution would be more gender and GEDSI sensitive this semester and urged the Instruction and Curriculum Head of the GADRC to integrate GEDSI in curriculum programs. (MCPSioco) 

 

 The participants during the Seminar-Workshop on GEDSI Mainstreaming at Lucban, Quezon.

----- DOC | GAD RC, ES conduct FGD among stakeholders | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/22/gad-rc-es-conduct-fgd-among-stakeholders/ | 2022-07-05 -----
A focus group discussion for the marginalized sectors composed of senior citizens, PWDs, solo parents, and LGBTQIA++s was held on July 05, 2022, at Babaylan Training Room, Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite. The discussion aims to identify the specific needs of the marginalized sectors and strengthen the partnership with the stakeholders for program planning and development.

 Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Director, Extension Services, discussed the purpose of the focus group discussion highlighting the need of validating and assessing participants' needs and expectations to promote equality and fairness in our society.

 Dr. Magcawas asked the participants on their understanding on gender and development, the challenges or problems they encountered, assistance they have received, and their awareness towards disaster and preparedness.

 Participants were able to identify the problems they encountered such as lack of livelihood, health related issues, discrimination, lack of source of income, inadequate medicine and pension or financial help, lack of job opportunities, community awareness of the deaf, understanding and learning sign languages, free therapy and counseling particularly for SPED youngsters, and more simulation or drills for disaster preparedness.

 Ms. Marie Shiela Antenor-Haloc, Disability Affairs Officer IV, Provincial Disability Affairs Office, on her closing message, expressed her gratitude to all the participants of the session and assured them that no one would be left behind, especially during disasters and other tragic occurrences that may occur at any time. ( MCPSioco) 

 Participants of the FGD

----- DOC | Two CvSU faculty members head abroad as Fulbright scholars | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/02/two-cvsu-faculty-members-head-abroad-as-fulbright-scholars/ | 2022-07-02 -----
The Philippine-American Educational Foundation has released the list of the new set of scholars under the 2022-2023 Fulbright-CHED PhD Scholarship Program. Among the new set of 'Fulbighters' are two faculty members from Cavite State University.

 Ms. Arvie Grace B. Masibag, an instructor from the Department of Biological Sciences – College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) will be pursuing a doctoral program in pharmaceutical sciences at the Graduate School of the University of Rhode Island. She serves as the CAS Research Coordinator and is also a faculty member of CvSU-Graduate School and Open Learning College (GSOLC) for the Master of Science in Biology and Master of Arts in Education major in Biology programs.

 Ms. Mariel C. Benigno, on the other hand, is an instructor from the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences at CvSU-Naic Campus. She will be taking up a doctorate in nutrition and food science at Louisiana State University.  Aside from teaching, she also serves as a research project collaborator and extension coordinator in her department.

 

 As 'Fulbrighters', they will be supported by granting funds for tuition and other fees, monthly allowance, travel expenses, health insurance, books, and supplies. The said scholarship is granted to faculty and staff qualified to pursue doctorate programs who are currently affiliated with CHED-recognized higher education institutions for the advancement of the Philippines' education system and to hone and capacitate more innovative leaders.

 In 2020, two faculty members from the university also qualified for the said scholarship. Ms. Amyel Dale L. Cero, who is currently taking up PhD in Environmental Science at the State University of New York – College of Environmental Science and Forestry (SUNY-ESF), and Ms. Sheryl N. Sierra, who is enrolled under the the PhD in Agronomy and Horticulture major in Plant Breeding and Genetics program at the University of Nebraska – Lincoln. ( CMGRafols )

----- DOC | CvSU trains Cavite PDRRMC on the use of GIS | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/02/cvsu-trains-cavite-pdrrmc-on-the-use-of-gis/ | 2022-07-02 -----
A two-day training on the use of Geographic Information System (GIS) was conducted for the 17 members of Cavite Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council (PDRRMC) on June 24-25, 2022. The topics discussed include introduction of GIS and georeferencing, overview of ArcGIS software, spatial mapping, creating a landslide and flood hazard map and creating a basic map layout.

 It was held at the Environmental Geo-information and Remote Sensing (EnGIRS) Laboratory of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources. Mr. Junser P. Magpantay and Mr. Daeniel Zarene P. Mojica both instructors from CAFENR – Department of Forestry and Environmental Science (DFES), Engr. Jose Carlo R. Dizon, instructor from College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) – Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering (DAFE) and Mr. Jhon Laurence B. Herrera, staff from Sugar Palm, Research, Information and Trade (SPRINT) Center facilitated the training. ( Jhon Laurence B. Herrera )

 Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, Instructor, CAFENR-DFES delivers his lecture on the use of GIS. 
 Participants create a landslide map of Cavite using GIS. 
 
 PDRRMC participants and the resource persons of the GIS training.

----- DOC | Main campus wraps up Q2 with 20 HEI benchmarking visits | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/02/main-campus-wraps-up-q2-with-20-hei-benchmarking-visits/ | 2022-07-02 -----
A total of 20 higher education institutions (HEIs) from around the country conducted benchmarking visit in the Main Campus during the second quarter of 2022, which also opened doors for more future collaborations. These academic institutions observed and learned from the best practices of CvSU in terms of administrative services, instruction, research, extension, and gender and development.

 Below is the list of HEIs that visited during the second quarter of the year:

 
 University of Rizal System (URS) Library Unit 

 University of Rizal System (URS) Research and Development, Extension and Production Division 

 Capiz State University (CapSU)

 Technological University of the Philippines (TUP)

 Palawan State University (PSU)

 Camarines Sur Polytechnic Colleges (CSPC)

 Kolehiyo ng Lungsod ng Lipa (KLL)

 Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU) – Los Baños

 North Luzon Philippines State College (NLPSC)

 President Ramon Magsaysay State University (PRMSU)

 Olivarez College – Parañaque

 University of Perpetual Help System DALTA (UPHSD)- Molino Campus

 Camarines Norte State College (CNSC)

 Batangas State University (BatSU)-Pablo Borbon

 Bicol University-Open University (BUOU)

 Benguet State University (BSU)- Buguias Campus

 Nueva Ecija University of Science and Technology (NEUST)

 Central Luzon State University (CLSU)

 Western Mindanao State University (WMSU) Virtual 

 De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) Virtual 

 
 Second Quarter benchmarking visitors.

----- DOC | CvSU, 3 international universities ink MOU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/07/02/cvsu-3-international-universities-ink-mou/ | 2022-07-02 -----
Firm in its commitment to providing quality service and excellent, equitable, and relevant educational opportunities beyond the bounds of location and distance, three additional partnerships and collaborations with international universities were formalized through the virtual ceremonial signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) during the second quarter of 2022.

 Held on the 12th of May, the University of Guelph (U of G) based in Ontario, Canada inked an MOU with the University for future collaborations specifically in the field of veterinary medicine. The ceremony was well attended virtually by some of the officials from U of G, including Dr. Stuart McCook, Assistant Vice President for International Strategy and Partnerships, Dr. Gwen Chapman, Provost and Vice President for Academic; Dr. Jeff Witchel, Dean of Ontario Veterinary Medicine; Dr. Pavneesh Madan, Professor at Ontario Veterinary Medicine; and Ms. Natasha Fernandez, Internationalization Officer.

 Virtual MOU signing with the University of Guelph. 
 CvSU officials present were the Officer-In-Charge (OIC) of the Office of the University President and the Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, OIC of the Vice President for Research and Extension Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Dr. Cynthia N. Rundina-Dela Cruz along with CVMBS faculty members.

 Officials from the Embassy of Canada also graced the activity including Senior Trade Commissioner and Commercial Counsellor, Mr. Guy Boileau along with the Trade Commissioners, Ms. Angel Cachuela and Ms. Ivy Mendoza. Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Director for International Affairs Staff Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla was also present during the virtual ceremony.

 Moreover, another partnership was formalized with INTI International University and Colleges based in Selangor, Malaysia on 02 June 2022 by signing an MOU to facilitate faculty exchange programs, curriculum mapping, design and development, study abroad opportunities, academic progression, funding, and visiting scholar programs.

 

 The MOU was signed by Dr. Nuestro and INTI Interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mr. Chong Kok Wai. Witnesses were Vice President for Administrative Support and Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, along with INTI Vice President for International Business Development Mr. Jesus C. Tinawin, and Vice President for Sales Mr. Bryan Kong. Other officials from CvSU and INTI were also present including INTI Pro Vice Chancellor Dr. Choo Wou Onn.

 To formally bind another collaboration on research projects, faculty and student exchange programs, seminars and conferences, virtual training and workshops, and the development of projects and programs, a MOU signing also took place between CvSU and Sripatum University (SPU) based in Thailand with Dr. Nuestro and SPU Vice President Dr. Wirat Lertpaitoonpan on behalf of the SPU President, Dr. Rutchaneeporn P. Phukkmarn, as signatories on 20 June 2022.

 

 The continuous partnership of CvSU with international academic institutions is being made possible through the efforts of the International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO) headed by Prof. Ma. Soledad Mojica-Lising. ( CMGRafols)

----- DOC | Consultative Meeting with the GAD Resource Center Partner Agencies (Cavite Province) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/09/22/consultative-meeting-with-the-gad-resource-center-partner-agencies-cavite-province/ | 2022-06-30 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) held a consultative meeting and Training Needs Assessment (TNA) with its partner agencies in Cavite on June 14 and 23, 2022. The purpose of the meeting is to showcase the GADRC's services to promote women's empowerment, gender equality and equity, and strengthen the linkages with them.

 On June 14, Ms. Kimberly A. Bustamante, Training Coordinator, GADRC, visited various agencies in the province namely Barangay Lallana and Barangay Inocencio in Trece Martires City, Provincial Government – Cavite Office of Public and Safety (PG-COPS), and Municipal Social Welfare and Development Office and Barangay Kayquit III in Indang Cavite. Ms. Teresita M. Siapco, Councilor of Barangay Lallana, Trece Martires City, assisted her throughout her visit on behalf of their barangay captain. Ms. Siapco requested to schedule another meeting to discussed further the services of the GADRC together with their barangay captain and other barangay officials. Ms. Siapco provided Ms. Bustamante contact information where she can communicate with regards to the schedule of the meeting. Ms. Claudette Trixia M. Flores, Public Relations Officer, PG-COPS, told Ms. Bustamante that they will first discuss the GADRC collaboration with their head and will inform her on the updates with regards to the partnership. Mr. Reymar M. Basahan, Barangay Secretary of Brgy. Inocencio, Trece Martires City expressed his appreciation for the partnership. He mentioned that they will be having a meeting on June 23, 2022 and requested Ms. Bustamante to conduct a Training Needs Assessment (TNA) on the said date in order to assess their needs and expectations. Ms. Brendalyn L. Salazar, Head, Municipal Social Welfare and Development Office, Indang Cavite expressed her interest in extending the partnership with GADRC.

 On June 23, Ms. Kimberly A. Bustamante, Training Coordinator and Mr. Gian Carlo R. Sison, Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant of the GADRC facilitated the simultaneous filling up of the training needs assessment of the barangay officials. The barangay officials expressed their willingness to collaborate with the GADRC as they shared their views and opinions about what they want to learn, their needs, and their expectations. They are also interested on topics on Republic Act 7192: Women in Development and Nation Building Act and Republic Act 8174: General Appropriations Act of 1996. (KABustamante) 

 Focus group discussion of Ms. Kimberly A. Bustamante with the Barangay Officials of Barangay Inocencio, Trece Martires City

----- DOC | TUP benchmarks at GAD Resource Center | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/30/tup-benchmarks-at-gad-resource-center/ | 2022-06-30 -----
In fulfilment of promoting GAD advocacies within their university and community, the Technological University of the Philippines (TUP) – Gender and Development team comprised of administrators, coordinators, and staffs from Manila (Main) and Taguig Campus held a benchmarking activity on the best practices and experiences of the CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) on June 22, 2022, at the Babaylan Training Room, GADRC.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GADRC's In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, shared an audio-visual presentation of the university's best practice on GAD that publicized the GADRC's services including budget allocation, mainstreaming of gender and development in instruction, research, and extension through the conduct of capability building such as trainings, seminars, workshops, and orientations among others. She also shared the establishment of Bookshare Corner and Lactation Station. Moreover, Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Cavite City Campus, and President, MOVE KATROPA shared a synopsis of the establishment of CvSU MOVE KATROPA.

 The visitors from TUP Manila and Taguig headed by the GAD Focal Person Ms. Jennifer P. Alinsunod along with the other members of their GADFPS namely Ms. Imelda V. Lay, Ms. Clowee Sarmiento, Mr. Perceival B. Bagadi, Ms. Corazon B. Boñola, Ms. Cherry G. Pascion, Mr. Hero De Guzman, Ms. Melissa D. Menes, Mr. Jefferson C. Rufo, and Ms. Krystel Alvarado was welcomed by Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director of GADRC along with the GADRC personnel. (MCPSioco) 

 The GADRC welcomed the TUP Manila and Taguig. 
 Registration Process 
 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat (left) discussing the CvSU best practices on GAD; and Mr. King David J. Agreda (right) discussing the establishment of CvSU MOVE KATROPA. 
 The personnel of the TUP Manila and Taguig and CvSU GADRC.

----- DOC | Facets of Child Labor in the Modern World | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/facets-of-child-labor-in-the-modern-world/ | 2022-06-30 -----
A webinar entitled “Child Labor – Online Sexual Exploitation of Children (OSEC): A Modern Face of Human-Trafficking” was successfully held on June 9, 2022, via Zoom platform and Facebook live.

 Dr. David L. Cero, dean, College of Engineering and Information Technology delivered the opening message. He stated that sexual exploitation of children has been around for a long time and that it is now possible to do it from the comfort of one's home using a cellular phone or a laptop with an internet connection. He urged everyone to pay close attention to the speaker to increase awareness on OSEC. He complimented the GADRC and expressed optimism that the three E's (Engage, Equip, and Empower) would be met.

 

 Ms. Ma. Sheila N. Estabillo, project manager, Safe Online Project, Plan International Philippines, discussed Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children and OSEC in the Philippines. She noted that according to Time Magazine, the Philippines was formerly the world's texting and selfie capital. Furthermore, she added that the Philippines is the “global hub” of live-streamed child pornography, with victims averaging 11 years old and offenders ranging in age from 40 to 72 years old from various nations across the world. She described the stages of sexual exploitation and stressed the red flags and signs to look for when someone has been sexually abused. She briefly reviewed the legal legislation pertaining to sexual exploitation and gave online safety tips using the acronym PIBST, which stands for privatized account, ignored inappropriate messages, blocked people, screenshot proofs, and talked to a trusted adult or authorities.

 

 Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic, dean, College of Criminal Justice gave the closing message. She stated that it is very timely and significant topic and worthy to note that with the number of participants attending indicates that they are ready, willing, and interested in advancing any types of intervention against OSEC which can be considered as digital or online pandemic.

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, president, MOVE KATROPA and GAD coordinator of  Cavite City Campus, moderated the webinar. (MCPSioco) 

 

 The participants of the webinar on Child Labor.

----- DOC | Orientation on Sign Language | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/30/orientation-on-sign-language/ | 2022-06-30 -----
The Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) in collaboration with Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), conducted a seminar entitled “Sign Language Orientation” on June 17, 2022, at the Persons with Disability Affairs Office, Indang, Cavite. The activity, attended by 31 participants, aims to promote awareness about the indigenous sign language of Filipino.

 Mr. Florian H. De Borja, president of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) expressed his hearty welcome to all attendees, especially the resource speaker.

 Ms. Anna Donna B. Nono, SPED teacher, Carmona ES BML SPED Center, Division of Cavite Province spoke on Filipino Sign Language (FSL). She briefly explained the salient features of Republic Act 11106 or the Filipino Sign Language Act that has been in effect since November 27, 2018. She went on to explain that the FSL is the natural sign language of Filipino deaf and an indigenous sign language for deaf adult communities. She also tackled the common misconceptions of FSL. Moreover, she discussed the parameters in FSL such as hand shapes, palm orientation, location, movement, and non-manual signals. To ensure participants attention, she conducted an activity that deals on the practices of creating hand gestures or sign language.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, in-charge for planning, monitoring and evaluation, GADRC showed an application, a project made by the students of CvSU Cavite City Campus that displays the different hand gestures that can be use when talking to deaf people afterwhich she went on to deliver the closing message. She expressed her appreciation to all the participants, as well as to the resource speaker.

 Ms. Estebat served as moderator for this activity. (MCPSioco) 

 Ms. Anna Donna B. Nono, discussing the Filipino Sign Language. 
 The participants of the Sign Language seminar.

----- DOC | CvSU receives plaque of recognition from CHED | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/21/cvsu-receives-a-plaque-of-recognition-from-ched/ | 2022-06-21 -----
The Commission on Higher Education (CHED) awarded Cavite State University a plaque of recognition on the 13th of June 2022 to acknowledge its efforts in providing free training on flexible learning for 146 Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) during the implementation of CHED's Hi-Ed Bayanihan Project.

 Through the webinar series titled “Course Design and Delivery for Flexible Learning Arrangement” which ran from July 30 to August 27, 2020, a total of 3,188 faculty members benefitted from the training which covered several topics such as course development process, online pedagogy, creating an engaging and interactive presentation, creating and using videos for teaching and learning, and how to use Google Classroom.

 CvSU was one of the 12 HEIs in the CALABARZON tapped by CHED to provide assistance through the conduct of free webinar to aid the faculty members in the transition to flexible learning for Academic Year 2020-2021.

 The plaque was received by Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Officer-In-Charge to the Office of the University President and the Vice President for Academic Affairs, during the awarding ceremony held as part of the inauguration and blessing of the new CHED IV-A Regional Office in Marawoy, Lipa City, Batangas.

----- DOC | DOSTv features DOSTRUCK; Tua Coffee Growers complete DOSTRUCK's Training Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/21/dostv-features-dostruck-tua-coffee-growers-complete-dostrucks-training-program/ | 2022-06-21 -----
The DOST Technology in the Region for the Upscaling of Community Knowledge or commonly known as DOSTRUCK was featured on DOSTv, the official weather and science program of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST).

 In the said episode released on 01 June 2022, Dr. Mojica discussed the DOSTRUCK as a mobile food processing hub designed by DOST CALABARZON in partnership with the Metals Industry Research and Development Center (MIRDC) and CvSU to capacitate the needs of micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs) in terms of their food safety-compliant facilities and its use in helping the coffee growers and farmers in processing, producing and marketing their own coffee in Cavite. He discussed the processes of value addition and marketing of coffee products and explained why coffee was the chosen commodity in the implementation of DOSTRUCK.

 Moreover, Dr, Mojica also mentioned the outcomes of the coffee processing to the beneficiaries through the technology and shared that MSMEs are also provided with production, processing, and marketing training along with interventions like food safety training. Dr. Ruel also stated that he is looking forward that DOSTRUCK will be a national program of DOST wherein other products can also be processed inside the truck in the future.

 

 

 Meanwhile, a graduation ceremony hosted by CvSU was held on 06 June 2022 in recognition of 15 farmer-beneficiaries from Tua Coffee Growers' Association, at the DOSTRUCK station in Magallanes, Cavite, who completed the DOSTRUCK's Training Program from December 2021 to April 2022.

 DOST Regional Director Emelita P. Bagsit, former DOST Regional Director Alexander Madrigal, Magallanes Mayor Jasmin Angelli Maligaya – Bautista, Cavite Provincial S&T Director Gilda De Jesus, and CvSU Officer-In-Charge at the Office of the University President Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro graced the ceremony with project team headed by Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Magallanes Municipal Agriculture Officer Freddie D. Sisante, and other DOST and LGU officials.

 The 15 farmer-beneficiaries from Tua Coffee Growers' Association who completed the DOSTRUCK's Training Program, together with CvSU and DOST officials. 
 It can be recalled that DOSTRUCK was launched in November 2021 and was firstly deployed in Magallanes, Cavite for pilot testing with the assistance of coffee experts from Cavite State University. Dr. Mojica, as a project head of “ Adoption and Operationalization of DOST's Deployable Food Processing Hub in Magallanes, Cavite ” partnered with Magallanes LGU and funded by DOST-CALABARZON, facilitated series of trainings on the improvement of the coffee production practices for Tua coffee growers. ( CMGRafols )

----- DOC | DLSMHSI benchmarks at GADRC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/08/dlsmhsi-benchmarks-at-gadrc/ | 2022-06-08 -----
In line with their goal of developing their own gender-responsive curriculum program, the De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute (DLSMHSI) personnel held a virtual benchmarking activity on the best practices and experiences of the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) on 23 May 2022.

 As a four-time recipient of the Most Outstanding State University award in GAD Implementation in CALABARZON, the best practices of GADRC are already encapsulated in an avio-visual presentation, which was presented by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. The AVP also showcased GADRC's services which include mainstreaming of gender and development in instruction, research, and extension by conducting capability building activities like trainings, seminars, workshops, and orientations among others. The videos on the establishment of the CvSU MOVE KATROPA and CvSU Bookshare Corner were also presented.

 The virtual visitors from DLSMHSI namely Ms. Honey Rodriguez and Ms. Clarence Witty Mendoza were also welcomed by GADRC Director Dr. Susan G. Tan, along with Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, and Data Banking and Publication In-Charge Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | 2022 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/08/2022-gad-planning-and-budgeting-workshop/ | 2022-06-08 -----
A three-day workshop on GAD Planning and Budgeting was successfully conducted on May 24-26, 2022 at the Babaylan Training Room of the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC). This was attended by GAD Coordinators from various colleges, campuses, and units.

 On behalf of Dr. Maria Agnes P. Nuestro, Officer-In-Charge, Office of the University President, Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC delivered the opening message. She encouraged the participants to take part fully and enjoy the workshop. She also hoped that participants would be able to use all they had learned in making the GAD Plan and Budget.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, GADRC spoke on GAD Planning and Budgeting. She thoroughly explained the criteria in making the annual gender and development plans, budget and accomplishment report. R.A 9710 or the Magna Carta of Women and R.A 7192 or Women in Development and National Budget Act, were two of the topics she highlighted. She stressed that the initiatives and activities for the GAD Plan must be integrated with Gender Mainstreaming. Moreover, she stated that the costs related to the GAD budget can and cannot be modified. Following the discussion, GAD Coordinators were urged to develop and amend their GAD Plan and Budget, which would be presented on the second day of the workshop.

 On the second day, Mr. Ariel Rivera, GAD Coordinator, Naic Campus gave an overview of the first day of the workshop. Following the recap, each participants prepared their GAD Plan and Budget for the presentation. The GAD Plan and Budget of the participants outlined the gender challenges encountered by each target and the causes were identified. The activities, programs, and resources included in their approach, such as booklets and other publications were targeted at giving awareness, information, and training in eliminating gender-based differentiation and discrimination. Ms. Estebat noted and recommended all participants to be cautious in harmonizing GAD strategy and budget on Gender Mainstreaming.

 The third day of the workshop was devoted in accomplishing the reports of the participants. During the closing program, Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, Director, Finance Management Office and GAD Chair for Finance that GAD budgeting is not only about distributing funds, but also developing a strategy and focusing on the end result. She expressed her gratitude and congratulated the organizers and attendees to this workshop. (GCRSison) 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, discussing the criteria of 2022 GAD Planning and Budgeting. 
 Participants of the 2022 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop.

----- DOC | WCR selects three PhilCAFE research grant winners from CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/06/06/wcr-selects-three-philcafe-research-grant-winners-from-cvsu/ | 2022-06-06 -----
The World Coffee Research (WCR) has recently announced the six (6) research grant winners on behalf of the Philippine Coffee Advancement and Farm Enterprise (PhilCAFE) project of the Agricultural Cooperative Development International/Volunteers in Overseas Cooperative Assistance (ACDI/VOCA) and its partners. Among the six winners, three came from Cavite State University – a research director, a master's degree student, and a staff from the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC).

 The three winners and their respective proposals are: Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar's research on “Genetic Differentiation of Coffea liberica Using SSR Marker Analysis”; Mr. Christian Joseph S. Baluyot's proposal entitled “Challenges of Farmers Beyond the Philippine Coffee Industry Roadmap 2017-2022: Basis for Government Policies and Industry Programs”; and Ms. Marjorie Ann B. Panerio's study entitled “Investigating the Rooting Efficiency of Hard-to-Root Liberica Coffee ( Coffea liberica )”.

 Dr. Baltazar is currently the Director for Research and Officer in Charge of the Office of the Vice President for Research and Extension while Mr. Baluyot is a Master's degree candidate at the Graduate School and Open Learning College. Ms. Panerio, on the other hand, is currently a Project Development Officer at the NCRDEC and also a Master's degree candidate at the University of the Philippines-Los Baños. The other three grant recipients are faculty researchers from the University of Southern Mindanao and Sultan Kudarat State University.

 The outputs of their researches are expected to be presented at the Philippine Coffee Quality Competition or Philippine Coffee Congress in 2024.

 PhilCAFE is a project funded by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) under the ACDI/VOCA. It aims to strengthen national coffee research capacity within the bounds of industry institutions, universities, and organizations to increase coffee production and productivity in the country and open more doors for Philippine-produced coffee in domestic and international markets. Meanwhile, WCR as a project partner brings international consultants and experts to PhilCAFE and administers certifications programs. They provide research grants in support of the ACDI/VOCA PhilCAFE project's objective of enabling state universities and colleges in the Philippines to take part in coffee R&D for the enhancement of the coffee sector in the country. ( CMGRafols )

----- DOC | CEIT holds tribute for board passers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/25/ceit-holds-tribute-for-board-passers/ | 2022-05-25 -----
In honor and recognition of the 2022 civil engineering board topnotcher, new set of architects, electronics, electrical, and civil engineers, and electronics and master technicians, a tribute program sponsored by the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) was held on 23 May 2022 at the International Convention Center.

 Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Administrative Support and Services, and former CEIT dean, applauded the passers as well as the faculty members for unselfishly molding the successful examinees. He also reminded the newly licensed engineers, technicians, and electricians to always uphold the tenets of the University and aim to be globally competitive and morally upright individuals in their respective fields. He also wished that the board passers continue the quest for professional growth and that he looks forward to them becoming leaders in their corresponding professions in the future.

 Meanwhile, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Officer In-Charge (OIC) to the Office of the University President and the Vice President for Academic Affairs, commended the outstanding performance of the honorees as well as the efforts and hard work of the parents, faculty, and staff of CEIT as the said achievement is very significant to the globalization of CvSU. Dr. Nuestro also hopes that the new licensed professionals will be ready for the uncertain world outside with the conviction to conquer it triumphantly. She also reminded them to live in truth, aim at excellence in everything, and be of service to fellowmen.

 Engr. Andrei Jan L. Montalban, the fifth placer in the May 2022 Civil Engineering Licensure Exam, shared his experiences, struggles, and techniques on how he surpassed the examination and became a topnotcher. He also encouraged everyone to reinforce desires with faith to be able to withstand the earthquakes and typhoons of life and remain faithful to God.

 The certificates were awarded by Dr. Nuestro, Dr. Polinga, Dean of CEIT Dr. David L. Cero, and Physical Planning Unit Director Engr. Orlando B. delos Reyes. A total of 10 newly licensed architects, 3 electronics engineers, 1 electronics technician, 14 electrical engineers, 35 civil engineers, and 4 master electricians were recognized during the program which was also attended by CEIT faculty members and other University officials (CMGRafols).

----- DOC | CHED confers Gawad Parangal sa Kahusayan – COPC Award to CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/25/ched-confers-gawad-parangal-sa-kahusayan-copc-award-to-cvsu/ | 2022-05-25 -----
In recognition of the University's unwavering commitment to quality and excellence, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) conferred upon Cavite State University the EDUKALIDAD: Parangal sa Kahusayan Certificates of Program Compliance (COPC) Award for having more than 65% of its program offerings with COPC. The awarding was held during the recently concluded CHED Gawad Parangal 2022 at Quezon City University on 18 May 2022. CvSU is among the nine State Universities and Colleges (SUC)-recipients and the only institution to receive the award in the region.

 The trophy of recognition was received by Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Officer In-Charge (OIC) at the Office of the University President and the current Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel Jr., Director for Institutional Development.

 The Commission conducted the 2022 Gawad Parangal as part of the 2 nd National Higher Education Day and CHED's 28 th founding anniversary celebration with the theme “Claiming Victory for Quality Higher Education: Dekalidad Na Edukasyon, Karapatan Ng Mamamayan ”.

 The 2022 Gawad Parangal also recognized the finalists and winners of the “CHED Merit Scholarship: My Success Story” and the awardees of  EDUKALIDAD: Parangal sa Kahusayan – Centers of Excellence (COE) and Certificate of Program Compliance (COPC) for State University and Colleges (SUCs) and Local Universities and Colleges (LUCs).

 A total of nine  LUCs and nine SUCs received the COPC Award, respectively while another nine universities were conferred with the COE Award. The latter is granted to universities in the Philippines recognized by CHED as Center of Excellence for various fields while the COPC Award is accorded to SUCs with more than 50 graduate and undergraduate program offerings in which 65% of the total number of program offerings acquired COPC and LUCs with more than 10 graduate and undergraduate program offerings wherein 75% of its total number obtained the said certification ( CMGRafols) .

----- DOC | CvSU welcomes 1st VELF | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/17/cvsu-welcomes-1st-velf/ | 2022-05-17 -----
With the help of the Regional English Language Office (RELO) in Manila of the US Department of State, the University, through the College of Arts and Sciences, hosted its first Virtual English Language Fellow  (VELF) this Second Semester, AY 2021-2022.

 Ms. Vivien Valles Thomas, this year's VELF, earned her Bachelor of Arts in English and Communication from St. Mary's University of San Antonio, and her Master of Arts in Applied Linguistics in 2014 from the University of Texas at El Paso, Texas, USA. Assisted by the Department of Humanities (DHum) and the Language Study Center (LSC), she is teaching ENLS 116 – ELT Approaches and Methods to students of the BA English Language Studies program. Aside from serving CvSU as instructor of the said subject, she is also a resource person for a series of round table discussions held online every last Thursday of the month. The said activity is attended by English and other foreign language teachers, both inside and outside the University. Other online discussions focusing on language and technology, language proficiency, assessment, and gender are conducted with the help of the DHum Extension Unit and LSC.

 The VELF Program is one of the English language programs offered by RELO. The RELO in Manila oversees programs in the Philippines, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and the Pacific Island countries. They send experienced U.S. English language educators with advanced degrees in different countries to help improve English language learning in the said countries.

 This collaboration applicable in the current flexible learning arrangement not only gives the students a chance to receive global education but also opens doors of international collaboration and engagement for other teachers. (LAOrsal)

----- DOC | 2022 STRASUC Olympics: CvSU Hornets bag 5 gold medals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/17/2022-strasuc-olympics-cvsu-hornets-bag-5-gold-medals/ | 2022-05-17 -----
Cavite State University has once again exhibited its excellence in sports after landing as second runner-up in the recently concluded 2022 Southern Tagalog Region Association of State Universities and Colleges (STRASUC) Olympics Bubble Competition held on 22-28 April at Southern Luzon State University (SLSU) Lucban, Quezon Province.

 With this year's theme of “ Embracing Sports Excellence in the New Normal ,” 34 CvSU athletes from the main and satellite campuses represented the University in the sports event. They were accompanied by 9 coaches and 11 committee members.

 The CvSU delegation, led by VP for Administrative and Support Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga and Sports Director Prof. Ana Liza R. Mojica, participated in the men's and women's division of basketball, badminton, futsal, chess, and table tennis, taking home a total medal tally of 5 gold, 3 silver, and 6 bronze.

 The futsal women, coached by Ms. Clarisse Ann Papa, contributed three gold medals while the badminton players (women's singles A and B), who were coached by Mr. Rey-an Penus, added one gold medal each.

 The three silver medals were from women's basketball (3×3), coached by Ms. Yzzabel Mojica, while the bronze medals were from futsal (3), badminton (1), chess board 2 (1), all under the men's division, and one from chess women's division (Board 2).

 Photo credit: The Kingfisher SLSU 
 Eleven State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) in Regions IV-A and B participated in the olympics. Palawan State University (PSU) was hailed champion while Batangas State University (BatSU) was declared first runner-up.

 Incidentally, Cavite State University will be hosting the regular STRASUC Olympics in November of this year.   (CMGRafols) 

 Sports Director Ana Liza R. Mojica holds the torch as CvSU will be the host of the regular STRASUC olympics in November.

----- DOC | Resiliency amidst the pandemic: CvSU celebrates 116th founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/15/resiliency-amidst-the-pandemic-cvsu-celebrates-116th-founding-anniversary/ | 2022-05-15 -----
In celebration of 116 years of being truthful and excellent in service, Cavite State University held its founding anniversary by honoring the legacy of Don Severino Delas Alas, recognizing the loyalty of CvSU employees, and marking its new milestone.

 A wreath-laying ceremony, attended by the members of the Administrative Council and the heirs of Don Severino Delas Alas, was held at the monument of the late Don Severino in honor and commemoration of his great contributions to the community. One of the great-great-grandchildren of Don Severino, Ms. Annalie Delas Alas De Castro, commended CvSU for progressive education even during the pandemic and stated that they are thankful to the institution for utilizing the gift of their great-great-grandfather to the community up until today.

 The heirs of Don Severino Delas Alas with the CvSU Vice Presidents. 
 In gratitude of more than a hundred years of existence, an ecumenical thanksgiving service was held led by Rev. Arman O. Mendoza, Rev. Fr. Samuel D. Lubrica, and Rev. Daniel Francisco at the CvSU-International Convention Center (ICON). This was followed by the recognition program,  with the theme  “ Katatagan sa Gitna ng Pandemya ”, honoring  the men and women of the institution who served students and the community in accordance with its tenets through their years of service.

 The message of the University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles was delivered by Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, VP for Planning and Development. Dr. Robles recognized the valuable contributions of the service awardees and retirees to the university and to quality government service even during the ongoing health crisis. He thanked them for showcasing their competent and just service and mentioned that loyal and dedicated employees like them are truly the foundation of any successful institution.

 On the other hand, Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Commissioner and Chairman of the CvSU Board of Regents, Dr. Marita R. Canapi, in her keynote message, recognized the resiliency, selflessness, and commitment to excellence and quality of the service awardees for the benefit of students and community. She honored them as 'true heroes' of the university and 'tough people' who are always ready to be of help and build the quality of life of the people with excellence, commitment, and dedication. Dr. Canapi lauded CvSU as well for being one of the best schools in Region IV-A and in the country through the resiliency and contribution of these individuals who served the institution for years.

 CHED Commissioner Dr. Marita R. Canapi delivers her message on the occasion of the 116th Foundation Day Celebration of CvSU. 
 Dr. Canapi receives the plaque of appreciation. From L-R: Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar,                Dr. Ma. Agnes P.  Nuestro, Dr. Marita R. Canapi, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, and Dr. Miriam D.  Baltazar 
 The University took pride in showcasing and presenting a total of 80 hardworking and resilient academic and non-academic employees from 2021 awarded with plaques and certificates of recognition. A tribute was also paid to service awardees and retirees from 2020 through an audio-visual presentation (AVP).

 The 116 th founding anniversary of the University was not just about remembrance and recognition. It also marked the start of another milestone in the healthcare and medical field  through the groundbreaking ceremonies of the College of Medicine and University Hospital buildings with Department of Health (DOH) CALABARZON Regional Director Dr. Ariel Valencia and OIC-Director of the Health Human Resource Development Bureau (HHRDB) Dr. Pretchell P. Tolentino as the guests. University Vice Presidents: Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga; Dr. Escobar; and Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar (OIC-VP for Research and Extension) alongside College of Medicine Dean Dr. Eleanor J. Galvez and Health Services Directors Dr. Romeo Sanchez led the said activity.

 Groundbreaking ceremony of the College of Medicine. 
 The administrative council at the groundbreaking ceremony of the University Hospital. 
 Moreover, the blessing and ribbon-cutting ceremonies of the newly built College of Criminal Justice (CCJ), Graduate School, CvSU Radio Station, Interdisciplinary Research Building, and newly renovated Gabaldon Building which were led by Dr. Polinga and Dr. Nuestro are indicative of the University's continuous efforts to deliver quality instruction, research, and extension.

 Ribbon-cutting ceremony at the new College of Criminal Justice Building. 
 Blessing of the new Graduate School and Open Learning College. 
 Ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Radio Station. 
 Ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Interdisciplinary Research Building. 
 Blessing of the newly-renovated Gavaldon Building at the Laboratory Science High School. 
 While being grateful for its achievements and breakthroughs, the University remains to be resolutely committed to more years of creating extra milestones to achieve the vision of becoming a global university. (CMGRafols)

----- DOC | CAFENR, ES launch GPP enhancement in Dasma Schools | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/15/cafenr-es-launch-gpp-enhancement-in-dasma-schools/ | 2022-05-15 -----
In partnership with the Local Government Unit (LGU) and Department of Education (DepEd), Dasmariñas City along with Farmer's Information Technology Services (FITS) Center of Dasmariñas City, the Cavite State University College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR) and Extension Services (ES) has launched an extension project dubbed as “Enhancement of the Gulayan sa Paaralan Program (GPP) of Dasmariñas City, Cavite.”

 GPP project is currently administering site assessments of school gardens of various schools in the said city. The CvSU-GPP Project Team firstly visited the 1st cluster of schools in Dasma. The second batch of school garden site assessments includes ten schools from Cluster II and Cluster VIII-B. The third round was conducted in the school gardens of Cluster V and the fourth site assessment was held at the sixth cluster of schools along with Clusters III and IV.

 During the rapid assessment and interview, some of the topics discussed were general information about the school, the technologies applied and practiced in the field, as well as the tools and equipment to be used. Despite the difficulties being encountered by the school gardens, revealed during the initial assessment, the program coordinators still expressed their willingness to develop their Gulayan areas.

 The GPP project of CvSU-ES and CAFENR aims to enhance and increase the productivity of 44 school gardens in the City of Dasmariñas by assessing their performance, identifying the necessary enhancements, capacitating the program coordinators and identifying their training needs, developing an action plan for improvements, formulating and implementing strategies on the utilization of the school garden products.

 CvSU's support for the said project was recognized by the City Schools Division of Dasmariñas by awarding a Certificate of Partnership. It can be recalled that on the 28th of February 2022, the GPP Project was launched and formalized by a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) signing ceremony virtually attended by Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President; Dr. Miriam Baltazar, OIC Office of Vice President for Research and Extension (OVPRE); Dr. Leticia T. Lopez, OIC-Chief, School Governance, and Operations Division (SGOD); Mr. Raymundo M. Cantonjos, Schools Division Superintendent; Mayor of the City Government of Dasmarinas, Honorable Jennifer Barzaga; Ms. Jennifer Ibayan, FITS Manager; Dr. Venus O. Saz, Dean, CAFENR and co-project leader together with the 44 Program Coordinators and School Heads, represented by Mr. Conrad L. Estrella, and DepEd Dasma. ( CMGRafols)

----- DOC | HRDO acquaints new employees | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/15/hrdo-acquaints-new-employees/ | 2022-05-15 -----
Aligned to the tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service, the Cavite State University Human Resource Development Office (HRDO) headed by Dr. Mary Jane. D. Tepora facilitated an orientation program for newly-hired Administrative Aide III at the S.M. Rolle Hall on 19 April 2022.

 The said activity is part of the Onboarding Program of HRDO which aims to seamlessly integrate the new employees into the University and help them understand their roles and eventually become productive members of institutions.

 Before proceeding to the orientation proper, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services and Officer In-charge (OIC) to the Office of University President, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro delivered their messages. During his remarks, Dr. Polinga mentioned that while the new hires are rendering their service to the institution, the University also desires to enhance the skills and services of the new employees. Meanwhile, Dr. Nuestro said that she believes that the University hired the best and the brightest among many applicants and trusts that the new hires will perform their best.

 Topics such as employment status, employment documents, dress code, official reporting time, attendance, resignation, code of ethics, duties, and responsibilities, prohibited acts and transactions, grounds for disciplinary actions, and performance expectations were discussed by Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan, Head of Recruitment, Selection, and Placement Unit of HRDO. Meanwhile, Ms. Abigail S. Cruz of the Rewards and Recognition Section talked about the compensation, benefits, and gratuity pay. An open forum was also conducted after the talk where the employees asked questions related to the matters discussed.

 A total of 54 newly-hired Administrative Aide III attended the program. (CMGRafols)

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery, and Installation of Various Equipment for the NCRDEC Product Development Facility (DA-ACEF) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/07/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-various-equipment-for-the-ncrdec-product-development-facility-da-acef/ | 2022-05-07 -----
MINUTES OF THE PRE-BID CONFERENCE AND BID BULLETIN

 

 Minutes of the Online Pre-bidding Conference 

 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 INVITATION TO APPLY FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TO BID 

 ITB 

 BID DOCUMENTS 

 BID DOCS 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 

 SPECS 

 NOTICE OF VIRTUAL PRE-BID CONFERENCE & GUIDELINES 

 Guidelines (Online Pre-Bidding)

----- DOC | Webinar on Solo Parent in the Workplace | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/07/webinar-on-solo-parent-in-the-workplace/ | 2022-05-07 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) held a webinar entitled “Webinar on Solo Parent in the Workplace” to raise awareness about Republic Act 8972: Solo Parent's Welfare Act 2000 and Women's Occupational Hazards. This was done via Zoom videoconferencing and Facebook live on April 30, 2022.

 Dean Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan of the College of Arts and Sciences, in her welcome remarks, expressed her heartfelt gratitude to all the attendees and guests, as well as the resource speakers who generously contributed their time and expertise. She stated that the institution would continue to support such provisions, and she congratulates all single parents for their efforts and sacrifices on behalf of their children.

 

 Ms. Darylvy R. Avila, Faculty Member, College of Arts and Sciences, spoke about the Republic Act 8972: Solo Parents' Welfare Act of 2000. She thoroughly discussed the contents of this law by providing its definition, conditions of termination, criteria of support, and the steps to avail the package.

 

 Ms. Alma Flor Caurel -Molina, Director, Patient Care Services, Perpetual Help Medical Center, discussed the Reproductive Health and Occupational Hazards among Women Workers. She went over the key points of the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012, also known as RA 10354, as well as the law's legislative aim and purpose. She also listed the various types and causes of hazard, as well as the special occupational hazards that women face, as well as the applicable laws enacted to defend women's rights.

 

 Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Director, Human Resource Development Office, made the closing remarks. She expressed her gratitude to GADRC as well as the resource speakers for sharing their knowledge and expertise. She also hoped that participants would share what they had learnt about improving everyone's wellbeing and that the CvSU would remain gender responsive.

 

 Ms. Joy Peji, Faculty Member, College of Engineering and Information Technology, moderated this webinar, which had hundreds of participants. (MCPSioco) 

 Group photo of the participants of this webinar.

----- DOC | Orientation on CvSU Policies for New Security Provider | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/05/07/orientation-on-cvsu-policies-for-new-security-provider/ | 2022-05-07 -----
An orientation on CvSU Policies for New Security Provider was held successfully on April 30, 2022, at the S.M. Rolle Hall. The University Civil Security Services   collaborated with the Gender and Development Resource Center to educate the new security providers on the university's policies.

 Mr. Romulo Gomez, Director, CvSU Civil Security Services, delivered his warm welcome to the new security provided and hoped that everyone would enjoy and learn at the same time.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-charge for GAD Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation, spoke on Gender Sensitivity. She thoroughly discussed the difference between sex and gender, gender division of labor, agents of gender socialization and the gender issues in the society.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GAD Resource Center, talked about the Safe Spaces Act. She briefly highlighted the origin of this law, the concept of sexual harassment as well as its different forms. She also warned all the security personnel to be mindful of their words and actions.

 Ms. Joeneth R. Reblora, Administrative and Logistics Manager, Advanced Remote Managed Security Services, Inc. (ARMSS), made the closing remarks. She reminded the security personnel that they are the partners of ARMSS's in ensuring safety and protection of the university's stakeholders.

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, In-Charge for Data Banking and Publication, GADRC, moderated the orientation which was attended by 50 newly hired security providers. (MCPSioco) 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat (left) discussing gender sensitivity; and Dr. Susan G. Tan (right), discussing safe spaces act. 
 Group photo of the speakers and the personnel of UCCS and ARMSS.

----- DOC | Soft Launching of Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning and Gender-Fair Language Module | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/19/soft-launching-of-responsible-parenthood-and-family-planning-and-gender-fair-language-module/ | 2022-04-19 -----
A soft launching of two modules developed by the GAD Resource Center was held on March 31, 2022.  The modules on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning and Gender Fair Language are the first modules developed by GADRC for the University.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, applauded the GADRC for their efforts during the national women's month, which he described as “very excellent job”. He also conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the proponents and authors of this module and hoped to have more modules on gender and development.

 Mr. Angelito S. Obcena, POPCOM Regional Director, expressed his gratitude for inviting POPCOM to be a part of the soft launch of modules and underlined the advantages of gender equality. He commended CvSU on the establishment of responsible parenthood, family planning, and gender fair language module, and expressed gratitude since CvSU is the only institution that places a high value on gender equality.

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, one of the authors of responsible parenthood and family planning module provided a quick overview of the module's content. This module contains six fundamental concepts and primarily aims to provide awareness, insight, and consciousness on the work required to build a nonviolent environment and our responsibility in family interactions. Mr. Agreda is also the Cavite City Campus GAD Coordinator, and President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA.

 Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, GAD Coordinator, Trece Martires City Campus and one or the authors of gender-fair language module briefly discussed the module's content. This module contains five essential part that deals in promoting gender equality using non-sexist language and utilizing gender-fair language.

 Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, gave the closing remarks. She conveyed her deep appreciation and praised everyone involved in the creation of these instructional materials. She expressed her delight at having a concrete outcome, a resource material that would be of great help to CvSU's stakeholders and believes that this scholarly work will benefit many people.

 Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, GAD Coordinator, Naic Campus, served as moderator for this activity. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Orientation on Gender Sensitivity, Magna Carta of Women, and Safe Spaces Act | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/19/orientation-on-gender-sensitivity-magna-carta-of-women-and-safe-spaces-act/ | 2022-04-19 -----
As part of the university-wide celebration of the National Women's Month, the GAD Resource Center conducted an orientation on Gender Sensitivity, Magna Carta of Women and Safe Spaces Act for all CvSU officials, faculty members, employees and students. The orientation was conducted on March 28, 2022 via Zoom and FB Live.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, in his opening remarks, stressed the importance of such a program as we commemorate National Women's Month and emphasized that CvSU would continue to push for and support the GADRC in all their initiatives. He urged everyone to create engagement with all sectors by taking advantage of the seminars and webinars offered by GADRC.

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator, Cavite City Campus, and President, CvSU MOVE KATROPA explained the fundamentals of GAD orientation. He offered a quick review of how the Philippines reduced the gender gap, as well as discrimination and inequality in our culture. He also provided a statistical data on violence against women and children. Moreover, the discussion focused on the dismantling the myths in sex and gender and listed 10 different myths.

 Ms. Arlene L. Estrada, GAD Coordinator, Trece Martires City Campus, spoke about the Magna Carta of Women (MCW) and highlighted what constitutes discrimination under the MCW.  Moreover, she discussed the government's role and discussed the MCW's significant provisions. She ended her talk by explaining how the MCW may be used to enhance women's and teachers' rights.

 Atty. Wilson A. Legaspi, a Faculty Member of the College of Criminal Justice, spoke on the Safe Spaces Act. He highlighted gender-based sexual harassment in public spaces, gender-based harassment in public transportation vehicles and online sexual harassment and their corresponding punishments.

 Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, Director, Finance Management Office, made the closing remarks. She stated that GAD is very evident and can be felt even without mentioning the awards they have gotten. She advised everyone to support these types of seminars and webinars as well as recognize GADRC's advocacy, because element of recall is very important. She ended her remarks with this statement: “Never can we completely claim that all of us are GAD champions unless and until we are aware about GAD principles and regulations associated with it. Never can we truly claim that we are and can be protected unless and until we continue to be cognizant of the GAD notions and rules associated with it. And, never can we properly complain about being a victim unless and until we believe anything in GAD principles and laws related to it was violated.” 

 Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, GAD Coordinator, Naic Campus, served as moderator in this activity. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Boto ni Juana Mahalaga!: A Webinar on Voter's Education | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/19/boto-ni-juana-mahalaga-a-webinar-on-voters-education/ | 2022-04-19 -----
As part of the University-wide celebration of the National Women's Month, the GAD Resource Center hosted a Voter's Education Webinar on March 24, 2022. The webinar aims to help increase women's engagement in elections by promoting good views of women as voters, leaders, and participants in all elements of the political process.

 Ms. Sharon M. Isip, Dean, Office of the Students Affairs and Services, in her welcome remarks noted that this action will provide better and higher degree of awareness for the voters, particularly the vulnerable sectors, toward responsible, democratic, and long-term engagement in electoral and governance processes.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, on the other hand stressed that the activity will educate the attendance on the significance of the votes to be cast on May 9. He emphasized that vote of Juanas and Juans are important, for all of us, for the university, and for the country.

 Ms. Shebana C. Alqaseer, Co-founder of Young Feminist Collective, spoke on “Si Juana at ang Halalan.” She emphasized why we should vote and how we should vote wisely. According to Ms. Alqaseer, it is our right, and it is the right thing to do and that our vote is very sacred and our decision alone. Moreover, she gave concrete steps how we can do our part in the era of fake news. She ended her discussion by highlighting the need of overcoming the long-standing bias against women.

 Hon. Maria Lourdes A. Sereno, Former Chief Justice of Supreme Court of the Philippines, spoke on “Juana: Pumili nang Tama at Bumoto ng Tama.” She spoke on the constitution's attempt to define safety by stating that there should be truth, justice, love, freedom, peace, and equality. She listed the qualities of a good leader as being knowledgeable, trustworthy, not selfish, and God-fearing. She stressed that elections are a one-of-a-kind means to replace many abusive, vicious, lazy, and irresponsible leaders with persons of character, skill, effort, and bravery.

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, made the closing remarks. She reminded the Juans and Juanas that our votes are very important and believes that no one at CvSU will sell their vote, and that the university will choose a leader based on qualifications, experience, and quality, as well as integrity and honesty. She also advised everyone to rely on accurate information and if necessary, conduct fact checks and examine the sources of information before sharing it with others.

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, GAD Coordinator, Cavite City Campus and President, CvSU MOVE KATROPA, served as moderator for this activity. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Alay Lakad Tungo sa Kaunlaran ni Juana: A Fun Walk in Celebration of the 2022 National Women's Month | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/19/alay-lakad-tungo-sa-kaunlaran-ni-juana-a-fun-walk-in-celebration-of-the-2022-national-womens-month/ | 2022-04-19 -----
As part of the National Women's Month celebration, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) led the activity dubbed as “ Alay Lakad Tungo sa Kaunlaran ni Juana ” to strengthen, inspire, and empower women and girls to be agents of change, and promote gender equality and women empowerment in the University.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, said that CvSU strongly upholds the rights of women and lauded the Gender and Development Resource Center for continuously conducting activities that promote women's empowerment.

 Meanwhile, Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Officer-In-Charge, Office of the Vice-President for Administrative and Support Services, commended the Gender and Development Resource Center on arranging the event. She stated that the university is supporting all of our institution's efforts not just for the physical but also for the emotional, social, and psychological well-being of the Juanas.

 Before the Alay Lakad commenced, a warm-up exercise was led by the faculty members from the College of Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation. The Alay Lakad Tungo sa Kaunlaran ni Juana started at the University Athletic Field and ended at the Agri-Eco Tourism Park.

 Ms. Adora Joy T. Plete served as the moderator for this activity, which was participated in by the Administrative Council Members. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Training of Trainers on Gender and Development | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/19/training-of-trainers-on-gender-and-development/ | 2022-04-19 -----
A three-day training of trainers was conducted from March 15 to 17, 2022 for all GAD Coordinators and Officers of the CvSU Men Opposed to Violence Everywhere and  Kalalakihang Tapat sa Responsibilidad at Obligasyon sa Pamilya (MOVE KATROPA) to refresh the participants in the basic principles of Gender, Equality, Diversity, and Social Inclusions (GEDSI) and how to become an effective GAD trainer and at the same time, help to improve their skills in planning a gender sensitive presentation and how to deliver it with confidence and conviction.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President made the introductory remarks. He expressed a hearty welcome to all the participants of the training program notably to the resource speakers. He urged attendees to take advantage of the program so that they may successfully incorporate Gender, Equality, Diversity, and Social Inclusions (GEDSI) into training materials, communication materials, and other knowledge products.

 Ms. Racquel Agustin, a faculty member from the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) spoke on the advantages and disadvantages of communication, as well as the various communication styles. Meanwhile, Mr. Bernard S. Feranil, also from CAS, talked about effective oral communication and also highlighted its necessity. He spoke on myths and mistakes in technical presentations and outlined the twelve elements of good oral communication and gave a vocabulary development practice to the participants.

 On the second day, Dr. Excelsa C. Tonson, Deputy Director for Training and Outreach Center for Women and Gender Studies, University of the Philippines (UP) spoke on GEDSI Basic Concepts and conducted a group activity identifying the GEDSI policies that can be found under instruction, research, and extension. Ms. Maritess Cruz, Founder, Feminist Media Lab talked about gender-responsive and inclusive communication materials-how to make use of them. She spoke about the politics of representation and discussed the ways to deal with gender issues. A group activity was carried out to identify sexist preconceptions and why they become an issue, as well as assumptions manifested in their communication materials.

 On the third day, Dr. Carolyn I. Sobritchea, President, UP Center for Women's Studies Foundation, Inc discussed planning and delivering gender-responsive and inclusive programs and services. Afterwards, a group activity was conducted that aims to improve their present GAD Plan based on the findings of the GEDSI training.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Officer-In-Charge, GADRC, delivered the closing remarks and served as moderator for this activity with a total of 19 participants. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Innovation and Technology Support Office 2021 Cluster Awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/18/innovation-and-technology-support-office-2021-cluster-awards/ | 2022-04-18 -----
Cavite State University secured a position in the Platinum Cluster Category of the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL) 2021 Clustering Scheme of the Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) 2.0 program . The Platinum Award is the highest recognition  given by  IPOPHL for ITSOs that have developed specific competencies or expertise over time  and for those with the manpower to dispense such expertise.

 ITSO 2.0 program is  designed to revitalize the ITSO network  to cope with the pressing demands of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR).  Under the program, ITSOs are clustered accordingly based on set parameters.

 Despite the challenges brought about by COVID19 pandemic, CvSU ITSO, headed by Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, has drafted and filed seven invention patents in 2021 – a requirement for Platinum Cluster Category in ITSO 2.0. Also, CvSU have successfully commercialized one technology through licensing agreement.

 The award was given during the 2021 ITSO Cluster Awarding Ceremony conducted online by IPOPHL on April 18, 2022.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Congratulations to Cavite State University Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO), Knowledge and Technology Transfer Office (KTTO), and Knowledge Management Center (KMC)!

----- DOC | SPRINT Center provides technical consultation to St. Catherine Family Helper Project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/13/sprint-center-provides-technical-consultation-to-st-catherine-family-helper-project/ | 2022-04-13 -----
Mr. Albert Aquino of St. Catherine Family Helper Project in Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental visited the Cavite State University (CvSU) – Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade (SPRINT) Center on 07 April 2022 to seek technical consultation on the management of sugar palm (kaong) in Mt. Talinis. During his visit, SPRINT Director Junser P. Magpantay shared the current initiatives of the University in the development of a sustainable, equitable, and environment-friendly sugar palm industry. Director Magpantay also imparted the technology used by the Center in the production of granulated kaong brown sugar, which is derived from freshly harvested kaong sap and has a low glycemic index. Mr. Aquino also visited the facilities of the Center on kaong sugar and vinegar production, kaong seedling germination area, and nursery . An ocular survey of the kaong population inside the University was also conducted.

 Mr. Aquino and Director Magpantay agreed to come up with a program for managing the kaong along Mt. Talinis, Negros Oriental to support the local community through the technology of SPRINT Center. ( JLBHerrera) 

 SPRINT Center staff (wearing green) and visitors from St. Catherine Family Helper Project take pose in a front of a sugar palm tree.

----- DOC | CHED evaluates HECTOR system | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/12/ched-evaluates-hector-system/ | 2022-04-12 -----
Fourteen technical experts from the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) International Affairs Staff (IAS) and Office of Planning, Research, and Knowledge Management (OPRKM), headed by Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla, Officer-In-Charge, Office of the Deputy Executive Director and Director of CHED IAS recently visited the university to evaluate the Higher Education Cooperation towards Transnational Education (HECTOR) System at CvSU Hostel Tropicana, 24 and 25 March 2022.

 Titled “Workshop on the Improvement and Updating of the HECTOR System and Writeshop on the Research Components of HECTOR”, this endeavor aimed to provide an opportunity for the CHED IAS technical team and experts to review and improve the developed HECTOR system and for the program management team to complete the research papers, especially on the data analysis and interpretation of the qualitative research components of RDE Program HECTOR.

 University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles warmly welcomed the team and stressed the importance of the project to the internationalization program of the university. “I hope that this project will be sustained for our HEIs to be at par with international universities offering TNE programs”, he added.

  Meanwhile, Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, program manager and principal investigator gave an overview of the status and update of the project. She also congratulated the team and expressed her gratitude to CHED for the full support to realize the project.

 Given ample time to review the system, the CHED IAS and OPRKM team presented the evaluation result and recommendations to improve the HECTOR system, especially on the website's functionality, content, aesthetics, and other salient system requirements. Based on the comments and findings, Atty. Milla has recommended a second extension of the project to complete the updating and improvement of the HECTOR system before the public launching of the project. Atty. Milla recognized the dedication and efforts of the team in the development of this highly intelligent open resource system on TNE and internationalization.

 The Project, which kicked off in 2019 is nearing its completion after six months of extension due to delays and disruptions brought by the pandemic, is now up for extension for another six months. (ARCSolis) 

 The HECTOR Team 
 The HECTOR Team with Atty. Milla 
 The HECTOR Team with Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla 
 At the CvSU Agri-EcoTourism Park

----- DOC | CvSU holds 109th Commencement Exercises; GSOLC in F2F grad | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/05/cvsu-holds-109th-commencement-exercises-gsolc-in-f2f-grad/ | 2022-04-05 -----
The 109th Commencement Exercises of Cavite State University was held virtually on 02 April 2022 with Department of Agriculture (DA) Secretary, Dr. William D. Dar as commencement speaker. 

   

 Dr. Dar encouraged the graduates to consider a career in public service because he believes that the nation needs talented and educated individuals who can serve the public in the field of agriculture, agribusiness, and food security. He also recommended the said fields to those who are seeking deep personal satisfaction and self-fulfillment because many people are still living under the conditions of poverty and neglect. 

   

 

 Department of Agriculture Sec. William Dar delivers his commencement speech.

 A total of 2,589 candidates were presented by the University Registrar Ms. Edwina O. Roderos and were confirmed by Dr. Robles as graduates of 2022. The virtual ceremony was aired simultaneously through the official Facebook page of the University and on the Facebook pages of the respective campuses.  

  

 Meanwhile, the Graduate School and Open Learning College held a face-to-face graduation ceremony on 31 March 2022 as part of the 109th Commencement Exercises, at the CvSU International Convention Center (ICON). It is the first face-to-face graduation that occurred in the institution since the COVID-19 pandemic.  

   

 A total of 105 candidates from the graduate programs of CvSU and the program offered in consortium with Wesleyan College of Manila (WCM) were presented, however, only 38 were physically present during the event. Minimum public health and safety protocols such as wearing face masks, hand sanitation, and practicing social distancing throughout the program were observed.  

 The graduates from the Graduate School and Open Learning College. 
 Dr. Hernando D. Robles confirms the graduation of the candidates. 
 In her commencement address, Hon. Emelita P. Bagsit, Regional Director of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) – CALABARZON, emphasized that the DOST-Science and Technology Institute recognizes the need to harness Science, Technology, and Innovation (STI) to accelerate and intensify the socio-economic development of the country. Hence, the Science for Change Program (S4CP) was launched to support the research and development initiatives for sustainable development. The S4CP focuses on four major sub-programs such as Niche Centers in the Regions for R&D (NICER) Program, which provides institutional grants for HEIs to undertake quality research that will catalyze and promote regional development; the Collaborative R&D to Leverage Philippine Economy (CRADLE) Program, which forms academe-industry partnerships to solve industry problems; R&D Leadership (RDLead) Program, with RDLeaders supporting the human resources component in every region; and Business Innovation through S&T (BIST) for Industry Program, which facilitates the acquisition of strategic and relevant technologies by Filipino companies to support R&D activities. She also invited the graduates to advocate for STI in their way as researchers, technologists, and entrepreneurs and to “ S tay  T ruly  I nspired by the community of innovators and the strong spirit and culture of innovation that dreams for a better life for every Filipino ”. 

 DOST-CALABARZON Regional Director Emelita P. Bagsit delivers her message to the GS-OLC graduates. 
 The F2F ceremony was also attended by CvSU and WCM officials, dissertation advisers, and one parent or family member of the respective graduates. ( CMGRafols )

----- DOC | CvSU benchmarks iLAB facility at TAU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/05/cvsu-benchmarks-ilab-facility-at-tau/ | 2022-04-05 -----
The Cavite State University iLAB Team led by Prof. Maria Soledad M. Lising along with the SMART Campus Team have recently conducted a benchmarking visit to Tarlac Agricultural University (TAU) at Camiling, Tarlac  as the Main Campus will soon establish its iLAB as an Innovation Laboratory for Global Education and Digital Citizenship through the funding of CHED. 

 The iLAB aims to be an avenue to support the Open Learning College (OLC) in promoting quality digital education and borderless learning.  It is also vital in establishing partnerships and collaborations with local and foreign Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and other external organizations. 

 The teams were welcomed by Mr. Julius C. Consul, Technical Staff of the TAU External Linkages and International Affairs (ELIA) Office upon arrival. They also made a courtesy call with TAU President, Dr. Max P. Guillermo. They also toured other facilities at TAU such as the Bamboo Processing Center and SMART Agriculture Facility. ( CMGRafols) 

 (Photo courtesy of ILCLO) Arrival at Tarlac Agricultural University, Malacampa, Camiling, Tarlac. From L-R: Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Ms Ezra Marie Ramos, Ms Julie Lontoc, Mr. James Angelo Aves, Dr. David Cero, Dr. Leyma Cero, Prof. Maria Soledad M. Lising, Prof. Emeline Guevarra, Ms Camille Ermino, Prof. Marlon Pereña, Mr. Russel Villacarlos, Mr. Mark Philip Sy, Mr. Ace Amiel Malicsi, Mr. Anzley Crusis, Mr. Dindo Marges, and Mr. Rhyan Matienzo. 
 (Photo courtesy of ILCLO)CvSU iLAB Team, with Tarlac Agricultural University President Dr. Max P. Guillermo. From L-R: Prof Emeline Guevarra, Dr. Leyma Cero, Dr. David Cero, Dr. Max Guillermo, Prof. Mariel Mojica-Lising, and Prof. Adora Joy Plete.

----- DOC | CvSU, Bagtas LGU signs MOA granting land portion for Tanza Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/05/cvsu-bagtas-lgu-signs-moa-granting-land-portion-for-tanza-campus/ | 2022-04-05 -----
The Local Government Unit (LGU) of Barangay Bagtas, Tanza, Cavite has donated a 300sqm vacant lot near the location of CvSU – Tanza Campus for the construction of additional school building and other facilities. The said donation was formalized by a Memorandum of Agreement between CvSU and Bagtas LGU signed on 29 March 2022. The current land area of the school is only 1000sqm square meters for 1,155 college students as of AY 2020-2021.

 The Agreement is pursuant to the Republic Act No. 10931 known as the “Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act” supporting the equal access of Filipinos to quality tertiary education through free school and tuition fees in all state-run universities, colleges, and technical-vocational institutions. Moreover, the Sangguniang Barangay of Bagtas passed Resolution No. 24 series of 2021 to provide assistance in delivering quality tertiary education to the youth of Tanza, Cavite.

 The MOA was signed by the University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Bagtas Barangay Chairman Manuel Clemente T. Mintu. Witnesses are the Vice President for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro; Tanza Campus Administrator Prof. Gil D. Ramos; Sangguniang Barangay Chairperson Ryan Mintu; and Sangguniang Barangay Member Jenina T. Paminter.

 Also present in the MOA signing were barangay officials of Bagtas, International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Director Mariel Mojica-Lising, and some faculty members and staff of Tanza Campus. (CMGRafols) 

 VP for Academic Affairs Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CvSU-Tanza Administrator Prof. Gil D. Ramos, President Hernando D. Robles, and Brgy. Bagtas Chair Manuel Clemente T. Mintu.

----- DOC | CvSU ends Q1 of 2022 with 6 benchmarking visits from HEIs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/01/cvsu-ends-q1-of-2022-with-6-benchmarking-visits-from-heis/ | 2022-04-01 -----
The Main Campus ends the 1st quarter of 2022 with 6 visits from different universities in Luzon. These visitations intend to benchmark the practices of the University in the fields of agriculture, information, and communication technology (ICT), veterinary medicine, and administrative and academic operations. They also discussed future collaborations and probable partnerships with the University.

 As the institution prides itself in the field of agriculture and coffee production, Cagayan State University (CSU), New Era University (NEU), and Isabela State University (ISU) benchmarked on CvSU's best practices in the said fields.

 The CSU Café Valena Team visited the Main Campus to attend a four-day Training of Trainers (TOT) on Coffee Production and Processing cum Strategic Planning Workshop. As part of their vision of becoming the “Coffee Center of the North”. The team was provided with technical assistance by National Coffee Research, Development, and Extension Center (NCRDEC) to restore their coffee production sites and other recommended interventions.

 The ISU also explored the possibility of collaborating with the National Coffee Research, Development, and Extension Center (NCRDEC) so they can launch a coffee center in their place while the NEU-Rizal College of Agriculture visited the University Library, Southern Tagalog Agriculture, Aquatic and Resources Research, Development and Extension Consortium (STAARRDEC), and College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR). They also toured the CvSU Agri-Ecotourism Park.

 Officials from Bicol University benchmarked at the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences in line with their plan to establish a College of Veterinary Medicine in their university while employees of the Information and Communication Technology Center of Aurora State College of Technology (ASCOT) benchmarked in CvSU's systems in managing the computer/ ICT center in the campus.

 Finally, officials from Romblon State University (RSU) were sent to CvSU to gain fresh ideas for the strategic institutional developments of the former in terms of academic, administrative, and research operations. (CMGRafols)

----- DOC | 20 CvSU grads pass CHRA assessment exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/01/20-cvsu-grads-pass-chra-assessment-exam/ | 2022-04-01 -----
Twenty graduates from Cavite State University recently passed the Certified Human Resource Associate (CHRA) Assessment Examination conducted by the Human Resource Educators' Association of the Philippines, Inc. (HREAP) on February 26, March 11 and 26, 2022.

 Ms. Jonin Claire B. Garcia, a BS Psychology alumnus of CvSU-Imus Campus, got a rating of 90.25 earning her the 4th spot in the Top 10 among Batch 21 examinees who took the exam on March 26, 2022.

 Also from Batch 21 were 8 successful examinees from other CvSU campuses – 3 from Carmona Campus, 2 from Imus Campus, 2 from Silang Campus, and one from the Main Campus.

 Meanwhile, from Batch 20, all 7 takers from CvSU-Silang Campus successfully passed the exam. There were also 2 successful examinees from Imus Campus and another 2 from Bacoor Campus.

 CHRA aims to assess the fundamental learnings in the human resource management field of graduating Human Resource or Psychology students; degree holders of the said course, or any, who experienced a year working in the human resource-related field; and faculty members teaching HR-related subjects. ( CMGRafols )

----- DOC | Wycoco receives Academic Achievement Award | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/04/01/wycoco-receives-academic-achievement-award/ | 2022-04-01 -----
Cavite State University College of Nursing instructor Mr. Ivan Derek V. Wycoco was recently conferred an Academic Achievement Award for 2021-2022 by the Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing – Phi Gamma Chapter during the 13th Annual Graduate School Research Forum hosted by Our Lady of Fatima University (OLFU) conducted virtually on 20 March 2022.

 Mr. Wycoco has been a nursing educator since 2019. He is a certified Infection Control Nurse and awarded as Top Five Disease Surveillance Coordinator and Disease Reporting Unit in CALABARZON for the 2016-2017 Philippine Integrated Disease Surveillance and Reporting (PIDSR) and an active member of Philippine Hospital Infection Control Nurses Association, Inc. (PHICNA) since 2017. He is also certified and trained CvSU Clinical Instructor at Philippine Orthopedic Center for the Intensive Nursing Practicum.

 Earlier this year, Mr. Wycoco was also recognized by the Filipino Nursing Diaspora (FiND) Network for his valuable contribution leading to the successful FiND and CvSU webinar series from 2020 to 2021. In addition, he is one of the Board of Directors of Philippine Nursing Research Society, Inc. (PNRSI)- Cavite Cell.

 Mr. Wycoco is currently enrolled at OLFU Graduate School taking up Doctor of Philosophy in Nursing major in Nursing Administration. With the wide array of clinical experience and fast transition at a young age in the academe and clinical practice, he had been recognized as Most Outstanding Alumni in 2019 by his alma mater, OLFU.

 He has been a member of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing which is the 2nd world's largest Nursing organization while Phi Gamma Chapter is the only virtual chapter of Sigma. The former acknowledges and honors exemplary nurse leaders in the world in terms of achievements. ( EMDelMundo )

----- DOC | RAISE trainings kick off with 4th IP Masterclass | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/26/raise-trainings-kick-off-with-4th-ip-masterclass/ | 2022-03-26 -----
In its mission of advancing technology transfer among participating institutions, the Regional Agri-Aqua Innovation System Enhancement (RAISE) Program kicked off with the first of four trainings on 23 March 2022 via Zoom.

 Funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (PCAARRD) and facilitated by the Association of PAQE Professionals (APP) as the training provider, the 4th Intellectual Property (IP) Masterclass is designed to equip participants from 53 institutions nationwide. A total of 20 participants come from the participating institutions from Region IV namely Cavite State University, Southern Luzon State University, University of Rizal System, Marinduque State College, Batangas State University, Rizal Technological University, Laguna State Polytechnic University, Forest Products Research Development Institute, and Romblon State University. Other trainees come from RAISE Programs in Cordillera Administrative Region, Ilocos Region, Bicol Region, Western Visayas, Eastern Visayas and Southern Mindanao.

 Participants of the 4th IP Masterclass 
 They were trained by Atty. Jerry Serapion of Philippine Rice Research Institute, Dr. Jonathan Salvacion of Mapua University, Mr. Caezar Arceo of  DOST-Technology and Promotion Institute, and Atty. Bayani Loste, all of whom are connected to APP. Other experts from APP like Engr. Manolita Aurora O. Javate were also present to support and give insights during presentations.

 Atty. Serapion 

 Dr. Salvacion 
 Mr. Arceo 
 Atty. Loste 
 Discussions for the first day focused on  Introduction to IP Management, The IP Policy Environment, Types of IP Protection, and Preparing Technology Disclosures which involved the identification of specific technologies from their institutions. Prior Art Search was then taught on the second day discussing patent search types, classification, and tools and strategies. In addition, participants did an actual search using the technology they chose for the workshop. Meanwhile, invention spotting was done on the third day along with the presentation of outputs  of trainees.

 The remaining activities will involve an actual IP application and exercises on other relevant documents. After finishing five modules until May, three other masterclasses for RAISE participants are set to be launched this year. These include the 4th Technology Commercialization Mentorship Series (TCMS) from June to August, Agribusiness Masterclass (ABM) from August to September, and Technology Promotion Mentorship Series (TPMS) from September to November. (RLDJulian/LAOrsal)

----- DOC | 5 campuses post 100% passing rate in LET | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/26/5-campuses-post-100-passing-rate-in-let/ | 2022-03-26 -----
Five Cavite State University campuses posted a 100% passing rate in the January 2022 Licensure Examination for Teachers (LET). All takers from General Trias, Silang, and Naic campuses passed the LET-Elementary while takers from Bacoor and Carmona campuses all succeeded in the LET-Secondary.

 A graduate from CvSU–General Trias Campus, Ms. Leah N. Pejida cinched the ninth spot in LET-Elementary for scoring 91.00%.

 Meanwhile, here are the overall performance of the other campuses in the said examination.

 Elementary 

 Main Campus – 50.00%

 Cavite City Campus – 90.91%

 Secondary 

 Imus Campus – 90.91%

 Silang Campus – 95.65%

 Tanza Campus – 80.00%

 Rosario Campus – 80.00%

 Naic Campus – 81.82%

 Main Campus – 74.19%

 Cavite City Campus – 87.50%

 According to PRC,  8,737 elementary teachers  out of  15,696 examinees (55.66%)  and  12,074 secondary teachers  out of  22,454 examinees (53.77%)  successfully passed the LET.

----- DOC | Press Release: Launch of the Leadership Workshop on Gender EDI in Higher Education Institutions | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/17/press-release-launch-of-the-leadership-workshop-on-gender-edi-in-higher-education-institutions/ | 2022-03-17 -----
Bangkok, 16 March 2022  – On 7-9 March 2022, SEAMEO RIHED and the British Council supported the Consultant Team from the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), University of Sussex in conducting the Leadership Workshop on Gender EDI in Higher Education Institutions. The Workshop virtually brought together more than 60 high-level leaders from 35 universities in 11 SEAMEO Member Countries, as well as management-level leaders from 5 UK universities, including the University of Sussex, Aston University, the University of Gloucestershire, the University of the West of the Scotland, and University of Oxford to leverage collective intelligence towards more equitable, diverse, and inclusive leadership in higher education.

 Facilitated by the Consultant Team from IDS, the 3-day Workshop focused on Gender EDI Definitions and Review of Policy Case Studies, Strategies and Practices, and Future Plans on Improving Gender EDI in Southeast Asian Higher Education Leadership and Impact Monitoring respectively. To forge a common understanding among the participants, the complexities of gender EDI were highlighted by a brief introduction to the structural, occupational, organisational, interpersonal, and individual natures of the exclusion of women, as well as the intersectionality of gender equalities with other axes of difference, including race, class, and location.

 With the diverse national and institutional contexts of Southeast Asia in mind, the Southeast Asian and UK participants embarked on stimulating discussions and peer learning sessions about gender EDI challenges. As diverse as its context, gender EDI in Southeast Asia encompassed different levels of progress. Some countries have regulation and formal body in place to ensure gender equity in the leadership roles and research team in higher education institutions, but face difficulties in maximizing these tools or putting them into practice. Some still struggle with raising awareness in gender EDI with the public and higher education leaders. Like their Southeast Asian peers, the UK universities recounted their different prioritised areas in gender EDI. One of their common challenges is, however, the implementation of their existing measures and policies. Despite their different challenges, the participants from both regions agreed on the strong impacts of cultural factors on the implementation of gender EDI policies. Hence, best practices need to be adopted with a consideration for different contexts.

 To continue moving forward, the participants explored potential joint efforts in addressing shared gender EDI challenges in 3 key areas: Institutional Governance and Policy, Training and Capacity Enhancement, and Community Engagement in Strengthening Gender EDI. Furthermore, they also identified respective institutional challenges in gender EDI and developed initiatives to potentially address them throughout the upcoming SEA-UK Leadership Exchange Programme. To conclude the 3-day Workshop, all the participants from 35 universities in Southeast Asia and 5 universities from the UK, as well as SEAMEO RIHED, the British Council, and the Project Consultant Team shared their takeaways from the 3-day Workshop and reinforced their collective commitment to continue strengthening partnerships of leadership with gender EDI within Southeast Asia and with the UK.

 The Workshop is the second core activity of the Project on Strengthening Leadership with Gender Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity in HEIs in the GMS and Timor Leste, which aims to foster sustainable network of leaders among Southeast Asian and UK higher education institutions leaders to promote gender equity, diversity, and inclusivity. Under SEAMEO RIHED's leadership priority, the Project is part of a more comprehensive SEAMEO RIHED Programme on Enhancing Capacities for Collective Learning and Continuous Development of Higher Education Institutions in the SEAMEO Region with 4 key components in innovative learning and teaching, futuristic leadership and good governance, future-oriented internationalisation, and sustainable research ecosystems.

 For more information, please visit: https://rihed.seameo.org/

----- DOC | College of Nursing starts limited F2F classes | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/09/college-of-nursing-starts-limited-f2f-classes/ | 2022-03-09 -----
After a series of consultative meetings and arduous presentation to authorities and stakeholders, the College of Nursing formally conducted the gradual reopening of limited face-to-face, Monday of February 28, 2022.

 First to participate in the in-person classes are eleven (11) Level 4 Bachelor of Science in Nursing students for their one-week Intensive Nursing Practicum focusing on school nursing under the supervision of their Clinical Instructor Prof. Ivan Derek V. Wycoco, MAN, RN.

 Next in line for the hands-on training and laboratory classes are the Medical Technology Level 3 and Midwifery students Level 2. Minimum health protocols such as handwashing, guidance on mask use, importance of vaccination and airflow system are observed and signages are posted in conspicuous areas to constantly remind employees, staff and students on the COVID-19 awareness and prevention.

 The Commission on Higher Education (CHED) inspection team headed by Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan, Education Supervisor II of CHED IV-A together with Department of Health and the COVID-19 Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases (IATF-EID), Department of Labor and Employment and Local Government of Indang, Cavite have conducted on-site visit to the university on November 24, 2021.

 Certificate of Authority to reopen campus for the conduct of limited face-to-face classes for Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology, and Bachelor of Science in Midwifery/Diploma in Midwifery Programs was granted to Cavite State University, under Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2021-001, effective December 6, 2021 until first semester of Academic Year 2022-2023. ( IDVWycoco &EMDelMundo) .

 When entering the building facade 

 

 

 

 

 Students with Mr. Ivan Wycoco 

 

 

 In-classroom set-up 

 

 Nursing Arts Laboratory (NAL) room 

 

 

 Signages/Standees in the College

----- DOC | Refresher Training Workshop on MOVE KATROPA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/08/refresher-training-workshop-on-move-katropa/ | 2022-03-08 -----
In support of ending gender-based violence, the Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a refresher training workshop on Men Opposed to Violence Against Women Everywhere (MOVE0) and Kalalakihang Tapat sa Responsibilidad at Obligasyon sa Pamilya (KATROPA) last February 8-10, 2022, via video conferencing to revitalize the commitments of the GAD champions. The activity drew over 113 people from different colleges, satellite campuses, and units of Cavite State University.

 On behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice-President for Academic Affairs, welcomed the participants by reminding them of their respective roles and responsibilities as officers and trainers of MOVE KATROPA. Moreover, she told the participants that she expects them to increase their standards and attain greatness.

 On the first day, Mr. Ronaldo A. Amora, Social Welfare Officer II of Department of Social and Welfare Development (DSWD) Field Office IV-A, shared the VAW situation and discussed the DSWD's current objectives and programs. He encouraged men to become partners with women and to work together to establish safe communities for all. Moreover, he spoke about how power is ingrained in social ties. He elaborates what gives someone power and who has power in our community and ended with a remark from Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, who stated that VAW is never acceptable, never excusable, and never tolerable. Mr. Amora highlighted patriarchal ideology, masculinity and sexual potency, the journey of becoming a man, patriarchy, and the change of the Filipino male. He underlined that patriarchy is a system in which both men and women participate. He also emphasized that males are victims of Gender-Based Violence and reinforced this point with images and videos.

 For the second day, Mr. King David J. Agreda, President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA and GAD Coordinator of Cavite City Campus, gave the recap for day 1 activity. In his recap, he provided a clear opportunity for the participants to examine their hearts as GAD advocates and to ceaselessly ensure that equity and violence-free community will prevail. He emphasized that Gender-Based Violence is a societal cancer that is more widespread than the emerging coronavirus known as COVID-19 and has a greater impact on women and girls than on males and boys. He ended his recap by assuring everyone that they will continue to encourage male involvement in the  advocacy, aimed at ending violence against women and emphasizing a larger and stronger movement for gender equality and social justice.

 Mr. Ricky A. Bunao, Officer-in-Charge, Assistant Regional Director for Administration of DSWD Field Office IV-A, discussed men as fathers and their engagement in parenting, parenting objectives, parenting skills, parental duties, and how to strengthen their relationship with their child. He also discussed different parenting styles and the responsibility of males in reducing gender-based violence and criminality. Furthermore, violence may be reduced if men serve as positive role models for other men and their children, take on leadership responsibilities, and engage in local community activities that promote awareness and support for the eradication of VAWC. Mr. Bunao underlined that father are the greatest source of strength for a kid. He recalled General Colin Powell, who said, “Behind a great individual, we frequently discover the legacy of a loving parent.” The purpose of fatherhood is to light a fire in the lives of his children. Moreover, he shared the history about MOVE, KATROPA, and Empowerment and Reaffirmation of Paternal Abilities (ERPAT).

 For the third day, Mr. Ariel R. Rivera, Secretary of KATROPA and GAD Coordinator of Naic Campus gave the recap for day 2 activity. He shared what he had learned at the second session, such as the lecture about men, which increased his knowledge in ERPAT, the duties of fathers, men's obligations, and good parenting. Moreover, how fathers develop gender sensitivity, appreciation, and partnership with their spouses, as well as promoting and enhancing family life by enhancing and strengthening a positive satisfying marital partnership, preventing domestic violence, promoting shared parenthood, and planning family size. Establishing a network among fathers in the community, increasing their active participation and involvement, such as assisting them in becoming aware of their role and promoting and understanding different forms of violence against women and children, as well as other forms of gender-based violence were the knowledge he gathered from the second day session of the training workshop.

 Mr. Harold M. David, Information Officer II of Commission on Population and Development CALABARZON, spoke about man and sexuality. Sexuality is a vital component of who we are. It allows us to have a more responsible connection by deepening our recognition and acceptance of our existence. He also discussed the various aspects of sexuality. Furthermore, he highlighted living a healthy lifestyle and avoiding vices such as cigarettes and alcohol, as well as stress and tension. Furthermore, he shared the beautification of marriage or partnership. The secret to a long-lasting relationship. Mr. David also tackled the importance of the man caring for his spouse or partner for a healthy pregnancy. It is important to guarantee healthy pregnancy to rescue women from the mortality that comes with childbirth. Furthermore, he discussed the man's role as a decent father. He also talked about family planning, the capacity to prepare ahead of time and have the desired number of children spaced correctly. He lists the advantages of family planning and discussed the many methods of family planning. Furthermore, he spoke about how KATROPA can be promoted and ended his discussion by encouraging the participants to be the change that they want to be.

 On behalf of Dr. Rezin C. Bahia, Dean, Graduate School and Open Learning College, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Officer-in-Charge, GADRC, delivered the closing remarks hoping that participants had been refreshed and learnt something new from the training program hosted by the CvSU GADRC. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | Workshop on the Preparation of GAD Accomplishment Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/08/workshop-on-the-preparation-of-gad-accomplishment-report/ | 2022-03-08 -----
In support of Executive Order No. 273, Magna Carta of Women, and the General Appropriation Act (GAA), Cavite State University Gender and Development Resource Center conducted a workshop on the Preparation of GAD Accomplishment Report last January 6, 2022 via video conferencing.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Officer-In-Charge of the Gender and Development Resource Center moderated the workshop on the preparation of the GAD Accomplishment Report, which gathered 26 participants consisting of 22 faculty members and 4 non-academic personnel.

 Ms. Estebat oriented the participants on the Guidelines for Preparing the GAD Accomplishment Report. She also discussed briefly the definitions of the ten (10) columns included in the GAD Accomplishment Report and presented a sample template for the attendees to visualize the form as she explained each column. Ms. Estebat thoroughly discussed the various columns that needs to be filled out by commenting and giving examples. Furthermore, she presented the list of means of verification and highlighted particular remarks linked to them. (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | My Pulpol Love: A Webinar on Unintended Pregnancy | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/08/my-pulpol-love-a-webinar-on-unintended-pregnancy/ | 2022-03-08 -----
The Philippines has one of the fastest population growth rates in Southeast Asia during the pandemic lockdown due to that birth control is inaccessible. The Commission on Population  and Development forecasted a 2.2% drop in contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) in June 2020. About 2 million Filipino women aged to 15 to 49 will become pregnant, resulting in 214,000 unplanned births. Lack of awareness about sexual and reproductive health and rights is frequently the cause of theses unplanned pregnancies among young people.

 To spread awareness on unintended pregnancy, the CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a webinar entitled, My Pulpol Love: A Webinar on Unintended Pregnancy on February 24, 2022, via video conferencing and Facebook live. This activity aims to correct the knowledge about puberty, reproduction, relationship, sexuality, the risks of unsafe sex and how to avoid such diseases like HIV, STIs, and unexpected pregnancy. Likewise, the activity was conducted to develop ability and confidence to deal with peer pressure and develop healthy and mutually beneficial partnerships.

 On behalf of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, Vice President for Planning and Development, welcomed the participants. She enumerated the objectives of this activity and hoped everyone in this webinar may gain knowledge and learn what the resource speakers will share about. She also gave her appreciation to the organizers of this event as well as to the speakers who will share their knowledge and expertise on unintended pregnancy.

 

 After the welcome remarks, Ms. Kimberly A. Bustamante discussed the house rules, objectives of the webinar, and the program flow.

 

 Mr. Ruel P. Mendoza, a Faculty Member of College of Education and CvSU MOVE KATROPA Trainer, spoke on attraction, dating and courtship, and online courtship. He addressed the four stages of a dating relationship. He also revealed the traditional Filipino courting as well as the modern courtship of online dating. Moreover, he also distinguished between courting and dating.

 

 Mr. King David J. Agreda, President of CvSU MOVE KATROPA and GAD Coordinator of Cavite City Campus explained the relationship boundaries. He emphasized the importance of making the proper decision not only for ourselves, but also for our future and our families. Moreover, he emphasized that healthy relationships have at least five things in common, which is based on the word “share” . He also discussed the funnels of commitment and intimacy. He also talked on boundaries and consents of sexuality, ABC of sexuality, and relationship and sexual activity.

 

 Ms. Hazelyn H. Dela Cruz, GAD Coordinator of Silang Campus, discussed the many forms of romantic relationship. She also explained why it is crucial to have a good relationship and what it entails. She also discussed what constitutes an unhealthy relationship and the danger signs to watch for. Furthermore, she emphasized how you can protect yourself from unhealthy relationship.

 

 Ms. Lady Aileen A. Orsal and Mr. Raymon Carlo A. Orsal, faculty members from the College of Arts and Sciences, spoke on engagement and wedding. Ms. Orsal started the discussion by discussing the existing marital status in the Philippines. She highlighted the factors that affect the dissolution of marriage. Meanwhile, Mr. Orsal discussed about engagement and the importance of choosing the “right one”. He added that marriage is about readiness and certainty. He ended the discussion by saying that while some couples divorce, there is nothing to worry about. There are factors that affect the relationship, but it is up to the couple to determine how they will keep the love alive. That is why proper marital concept and preparation are essential.

 

 Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, Dean of the College of Nursing, delivered the closing remarks. She emphasized the relevant issues that piqued her attention and provided a quick overview of the many topics discussed by the speakers. According to her, young people should not hurry into entering a relationship because it is the start of a lifetime

 

 Ms. Maria Czarina P. Sioco, in-charge of Data Banking and Publication, GADRC, moderated the webinar This activity drew over 90 people from zoom video conferencing and hundreds of viewers from Facebook live.  (MCPSioco)

----- DOC | CvSU Updates 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/03/03/cvsu-updates-2021/ | 2022-03-03 -----
DATE 
 HEADLINE 

 
 January 
 Pres Robles designates University officials 

 
 February 
 Doctors are “necessities”, medical school very important 

 
 March 
 CvSU signs MOU with University of Central Missouri 

 
 April 
 CEd profs attend SEAMEO Congress 2021 

 
 May 
 CvSU-generated technologies featured in DOST's StARRT 

 
 June 
 CHED-CvSU Wide Area Network project: unlocking possibilities 

 
 July 
 Agri-eco tourism park, launched 

 
 August 
 Internationalization initiatives video bags 3rd best in CALABARZON 

 
 September 
 Escobar designated as VP for planning and development; Magcawas in STAARRDEC 

 
 October 
 CvSU wins 4 medals in national karate tournament 

 
 November 
 CvSU S&T projects featured in DOST-CALABARZON 2021 RSTW 

 
 December 
 DA awards 7M worth of agri interventions to CvSU

----- DOC | SEAMEO RIHED and the British Council Launch the Project on Strengthening Leadership with Gender Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity in HEIs in the GMS and Timor Leste | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/02/15/seameo-rihed-and-the-british-council-launch-the-project-on-strengthening-leadership-with-gender-equity-diversity-and-inclusivity-in-heis-in-the-gms-and-timor-leste/ | 2022-02-15 -----
(PRESS RELEASE). The Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization Regional Centre for Higher Education and Development (SEAMEO RIHED) and the British Council have come together in the launch of the Project on Strengthening Leadership with Gender Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity (EDI) in HEIs in the Greater Mekong Sub-region (GMS) and Timor-Leste.

 On 7 February 2022, SEAMEO RIHED, together with British Council, held the “Project Launch and Leadership Forum: Pathway towards Leadership with Gender Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity in Higher Education”, which welcomed the participation of 14 senior government officials from 11 SEAMEO Member Countries and over 70 leaders and designated representatives of universities from the GMS (Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam), Timor-Leste and Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines as well as 2 Project Consultants from the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), University of Sussex and 5 UK partner universities.

 Opening the Forum, Asst. Prof. Dr. Romyen Kosaikanont, Centre Director of SEAMEO RIHED, shared that the Project brings together the concerted efforts of governments and a total of 35 government nominated Higher Education Institutions to work together through collective learning to co-create a more gender equitable, diverse, and inclusive higher education sector relevant to the region's institutional and cultural contexts. Additionally, she noted that gender EDI for the Project has been situated within a leadership framework in the realisation that working for gender EDI is a continuous process and needs engagement from all stakeholders under leadership that is committed and equipped with shared goals and tools to lead positive change. The Project also benefits from the strong partnership and technical support of the British Council and UK Consultants to ensure opportunities for leaders to exchange experiences, take back tools as well as good practices and policy options to lead change and contribute to re-defining a common space in higher education for the region of Southeast Asia.

 On behalf of the British Council, Mr. Leighton Ernsberger. Director, Education and English for East Asia, British Council, welcomed the participants, and related the project's objectives of providing common space to share and reflect on gender equity, diversity, and inclusivity, igniting new ideas between Southeast Asian and UK universities, and empowering university leaders with innovative and unique leadership tools to embrace gender equity, diversity, and inclusivity in policymaking and institutional operations, as well as building a sustainable higher education community.

 The remarks were followed by Keynote Addresses from Assoc. Prof. Dr. Chalidaporn Songsamphan, Co-President of the Asian Association of Women's Studies, and Dr. Linda Waldman, Director of Teaching and Learning, Institute of Development Studies, Sussex University. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Chalidaporn reminded the Forum that achieving an equal number ratio between males and females should not always be considered a victory for gender equity and that increasing the number of women represented in any area alone would not solve this inclusivity challenge. The same implication was reflected in Dr. Linda's address where she presented the evolution of approaches towards gender equity development during the past decades and pointed out lessons learnt along the path, highlighting the important role of structure and institutions in nurturing gender equity, especially in the field of scientific research. The perspectives on gender equity from both Thai and UK speakers demonstrated that gender equity and inclusivity remain global and regional challenges.

 A Panel Discussion on “Leadership for Gender EDI: Challenges, Needs and Ways Forward” was then moderated by Dr. Juliet Millican, from the Project Consultant team, and invited senior government officials and leaders of higher education from 3 SEAMEO Member Countries, including Cambodia, Malaysia and the Philipines, to discuss current challenges about gender equity, diversity, and inclusivity in higher education leadership, and opportunities for positive change and regional collaboration.

 H.E. Mr. Mak Ngoy, SEAMEO RIHED Governing Board Member and Director General, Directorate General of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport, Cambodia noted the importance to start with education, not only to raise awareness for policymakers and implementors but also for the broader community and society to better understand gender and how to promote equity, diversity, and inclusiveness. He suggested focusing on collaboration and the development of a joint curriculum for students to study gender, equity, diversity, and inclusiveness. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Yazrina Binti Yahya, SEAMEO RIHED Governing Board Member and Deputy Director, Centre for Leadership Sustainability (CLS), Higher Education Leadership Academy (AKEPT), Malaysia noted that while there are many women enrolled in higher education, many of whom receive good results and achieve success academically, this is not always translated into their working lives as structural support for gender equity is still lacking.

 Dr. Aldrin Arenas Darilag, RMT, RN, CHRP, Commissioner, Commission on Higher Education, The Philippines proposed 4 important areas for regional collaboration. First, to address the intersectionality of gender and poverty and empowerment of women through education on reproductive health and rights. Secondly, continued capacity building and coaching of women in leadership positions. Third, the sustained sharing of best practices across the region and, finally, confronting harassment within higher education institutional contexts.

 In conclusion, all participants, including SEAMEO RIHED, the British Council, the Project Consultant team, senior government officials in Higher Education from the 11 SEAMEO Member Countries, as well as representatives of Southeast Asian and UK universities reaffirmed their commitment to the Project and in working towards more equitable, diverse, and inclusive leadership in higher education by performing the symbol for the verb to commit in sign language. The Project on Strengthening Leadership with Gender Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity in HEIs in the GMS and Timor Leste is part of a more comprehensive SEAMEO RIHED Programme on Enhancing Capacities for Collective Learning and Continuous Development of Higher Education Institutions in the SEAMEO Region, which aims to push forward innovative learning and teaching, futuristic leadership and good governance, future-oriented internationalisation, and sustainable research ecosystems.

 For more information, please visit: https://rihed.seameo.org/

----- DOC | AD Scientific Index lists CvSU as 28th best PH university; Dr. Talactac as top-cited scientist | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/29/ad-scientific-index-lists-cvsu-as-28th-best-ph-university-dr-talactac-as-top-cited-scientist/ | 2022-01-29 -----
The January 29, 2022 edition of Alper-Dodger (AD) Scientific Index rated Cavite State University as the 28th top university, out of 65 public and private universities in the Philippines.

 The AD Scientific Index is a ranking system with a methodology based on the principle of including only meritorious scientists. Based on Google Scholar's total h-index scores, it lists all academicians, who are ranked in the world in the top 10,000 and top 100,000 in university rankings. Furthermore, it lists the breakdown of this ranking by main subjects.  

 The name of the academician with the highest total h-index in the respective university is displayed with the world ranking. Top University Ranking by “AD Scientific Index” does not only list the areas, where a university is the best or has room for improvement, but also reflects the outcomes of scientist policies of the institutions.

 For Cavite State University, Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, a Professor from the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) and currently the Vice President for Research and Extension was regarded as the top-cited scientist particularly for the study “Mucosal immunization with recombinant influenza hemagglutinin protein and poly gamma-glutamate/chitosan nanoparticles induces protection against highly pathogenic influenza A virus”.

 In 2020, Dr. Talactac was recognized as one of the 12 Outstanding Young Scientists  by the National Academy of Science and Technology and Philippine Veterinary Medical Association 's Outstanding Veterinarian in Education. He will soon be working on Influenza virus studies under Dr. Richard J. Webby of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee under Fulbright's Visiting Advanced Research Scholarship 2021-2022. 

 Engr. Edwin R. Arboleda, an Associate Professor from the College of Engineering and Information Technology was also cited for his work entitled “Classification of coffee bean species using image processing, artificial neural network and K nearest neighbors” as well as the former Dean of Silang Campus, Dr. Dinah Espineli, with “Hepatoprotective nature of phytoextracts against hepatotoxin induced animal models: A review” as her most popular article.

 Also on the list were Dr. Cristina F. Olo and Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, both Professors from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR) for the study “The adipose obese gene product, leptin: evidence of a direct inhibitory role in ovarian function” and “Adsorption capacities and related characteristics of wood charcoals carbonized using a one-step or two-step process”, respectively. Meanwhile, Dr. Adrian Miki C. Macalanda of CVMBS completes the top 10 list for his study on “Oral administration of azithromycin ameliorates trypanosomosis in Trypanosoma congolense-infected mice”.

 The top scientists from CvSU can be found here: https://www.adscientificindex.com/university/Cavite+State+University/ 

 Mindanao State University – Iligan Institute of Technology is at the first rank in AD Scientific Index's Top Universities in Philippines 2022 ( https://www.adscientificindex.com/university-ranking/?country_code=ph ).

----- DOC | Admission Requirements and Procedures for First Semester, AY 2022-2023 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/20/admission-requirements-and-procedures-for-first-semester-ay-2022-2023/ | 2022-01-20 -----
In light of quarantine restrictions and other logistical matters, the conduct of admission exam will be waived for 1 st Semester, AY 2022-2023. However, the grades of applicants shall still be evaluated according to the admission policy of the University and SHS strand/track shall still be implemented based on the Revised Policy on Admission & Retention for Undergraduate Programs – BOR Resolution No. 52 s. 2018.

 To minimize exposure to COVID 19 virus, all application forms and required documents shall be submitted online for the whole CvSU System.

 
   

 Procedure for Submission of Requirements: 

 A. Applicants for Main Campus, Bacoor, Carmona, Cavite City, General Trias, Imus, Naic, Silang, and Tanza Campuses shall fill out the application form through this link:

 https://apps.cvsu.edu.ph/admission/ 

 Applicants for Rosario (CCAT) Campus shall use this link:

 http://cvsu-rosario.edu.ph/Online_Admission/online_admission.php 

 Applicants for Trece Martires Campus shall use this link:

 https://cvsu-trececampus.com/ 

 B. For Main Campus, Bacoor, Carmona, Cavite City, Rosario (CCAT), General Trias, Imus, Naic, Silang, and Tanza Campuses – After downloading the application form, applicants should accomplish the form, affix their signature, and attach 1×1 ID picture.

 For Trece Martires Campus – Instead of downloading and printing the admission form, the applicant shall write their name in print and signature above it.

  

 C. The following are the required documents/credentials that must be submitted online: 

 Filipino Applicants-  First Year Applicants (SHS graduate but not yet enrolled to any college/university) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of completed Grade 12 report card duly signed by their School Administrator/Principal/Adviser, with indication of the strand of the student

 
 Filipino Applicants-  First Year Applicants (graduating SHS students) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 First semester grades (1 st or 2 nd grading period) in the copy of Grade 12 report card or Certificate of Grades duly signed by their School Administrator/Principal/Adviser, with indication of the strand of the student

 
 Filipino Applicants-  First Year Applicants (ALS passers) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Certificate of rating

 
 Filipino Applicants-  Transferees (Those who started college level from other university/school) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of Transcript of records/Certification of grades

 Other required documents such as Honorable Dismissal, Certificate of Good Moral Character, NBI or Police Clearance shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College/Campus concerned

 
 Filipino Applicants-  Second Course Applicants (Those who finished a two-year program or four-year degree program) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of Transcript of records/Certification of grades

 Other required documents such as Honorable Dismissal shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College/Campus concerned

 
 Filipino Applicants-  Teacher Certificate Program (TCP) Applicants (Those who finished a degree program) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of Transcript of records (TOR)

 
 Foreign Student Applicants – New Student (For Main Campus) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of completed Report Card from the High School

 
 Foreign Student Applicants – Transferee/2 nd courser (For Main Campus) 

 
 Accomplished Application Form for Admission

 Copy of Transcript of records/Certification of grades

 Other required documents such as Transfer Credentials, Student Visa/Permit, duly authenticated affidavit of financial support, police clearance shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College/Campus concerned

 
 D. HOW TO SUBMIT THE REQUIRED DOCUMENTS 

 Online/Soft copy (Submit scanned copy / screenshot / clear photo through email/ FB messenger/ google form link)

 Submit documents to the respective campus of choice . Details of each campus can be found below:

 
 
 
 CAMPUS 
 
 DETAILS 

 
 Main Campus 
 Google Form link 
 GOOGLE FORM LINK FOR 1ST YEAR APPLICATION: https://forms.gle/4p4bR4dsWx5RgrvH6 

  

 GOOGLE FORM LINK FOR TRANSFEREE AND SECOND COURSER APPLICATION:

 https://forms.gle/KTyRg266Uzxfoq6MA 

  

 GOOGLE FORM LINK FOR TCP APPLICATION:

 https://forms.gle/yGxQtwhNCCxUUNBu7 

  

 GOOGLE FORM LINK FOR FOREIGN APPLICANTS- 1ST YEAR:

 https://forms.gle/guNXnx35M9mT2awX7 

  

 GOOGLE FORM LINK FOR FOREIGN APPLICANTS – TRANSFEREES/2ND COURSER: https://forms.gle/j8YaVuuMpDrHfMLF7 

   

 
 Bacoor Campus 
 Email address

 FB messenger 
 cvsubacoor.admission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 https://www.facebook.com/CvSU.B.Admission 

   

 
 Carmona Campus 
 Email address

 FB messenger 
 carmonaosas@cvsu.edu.ph 

 https://www.facebook.com/cvsu.carmona.1485 

 https://www.facebook.com/CvSUCarmona 

   

 
 CCAT Campus 
 Email address 
 osa-admission@cvsu-rosario.edu.ph 

   

 
 Cavite City Campus 
 Email address 
 cvsucccadmission@cvsu.edu.ph 

   

 
 Gen. Trias Campus 
 Email address 
 cvsugeneraltrias.admission@cvsu.edu.ph 

   

 
 Imus Campus 
 Email address

 Website 
 cvsuimus.admissions@cvsu.edu.ph 

 www.cvsu-imus.edu.ph/admission/ 

   

 
 Naic Campus 
 Email address 
 osa@cvsu-naic.edu.ph 

   

 
 Silang Campus 
 Email address

 FB messenger 
 cvsusilangadmission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 https://www.facebook.com/osascvsusilang 

   

 
 Tanza Campus 
 Email address 
 admission.cvsutanza@gmail.com 

   

 
 Trece Martires City Campus 
 website 
 https://cvsu-trececampus.com/ 

   

 
 
   

 DATES TO REMEMBER 

 Main Campus 

 
 
 
 Start of application 
 January 24, 2022 

 
 Deadline of application 
 April 24, 2022 

 
 
 Satellite Campuses 

 
 
 
 Start of application 
 January 24, 2022 

 
 Deadline of application 
 June 23, 2022 

 
 
 Tentative Schedule of Release of Admission Results 

 
 
 
 Main Campus 
 May 23, 2022 

 
 Satellite Campuses 
 July 11, 2022 

 
 
 Qualified applicants for college admission will be notified via email, phone call, text message, or FB messenger depending on the contact details provided.

----- DOC | CvSU mentors Cagayan State U on coffee production and processing | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/16/cvsu-mentors-cagayan-state-u-on-coffee-production-and-processing/ | 2022-01-16 -----
As an offshoot of the visit of Cagayan State University officials, headed by its President Dr. Urdujah G. Alvarado, to Cavite State University on 22 December 2021, a team of coffee experts from the National Coffee, Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) was sent to CSU on 11-13 January 2022 for coffee site assessment and training workshop.

 The team conducted an assessment at CSU-Lallo coffee plantation to identify its current status, determine the suitability of growing coffee in the expansion area, and recommend interventions for the assessed coffee production sites. A training workshop on coffee production and processing at CSU-Gozaga Campus ensued the assessment.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Dr. Alvarado agreed to strengthen CSU's Café Valena Project through CvSU's mentorship. The said agreement is set to be formalized through a Memorandum of Agreement between the two institutions.

 The team sent to CSU was composed of NCRDEC Director Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, Rodrigo H. Diloy, Antonette Jean L. Magcamit, Maowel A. Villanueva, Al Eugene L. Torres, Emaroce A. Fernandez, Ronald P. Peña, and Edgardo P. Silan.

 Meanwhile, with Dr. Alvarado during the visit to CvSU were Dr. Junel B. Guzman (VP for Research, Development, and Extension), Prof. Josie Y. Bas-ong (Director for Extension), and Dr. Gilbert C. Magulod Jr. (Director for Knowledge and Technology Management).

 The CvSU team with Cagayan State University President Dr. Urdujah G. Alvarado (in yellow). (Photo via https://www.facebook.com/cagayanstate) 
 At Cagayan State University coffee plantation. (Photo via https://www.facebook.com/cagayanstate)

----- DOC | DA Asec. De Mesa turns over tractor to CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/16/da-asec-de-mesa-turns-over-tractor-to-cvsu/ | 2022-01-16 -----
Assistant Secretary-designate for Operations of the Department of Agriculture (DA) and concurrently the Regional Executive Director of DA-Regional Field Office IV-A Engr. Arnel V. De Mesa led the turnover of the four-wheel-drive tractor worth P2.06 million to Cavite State University on 06 January 2022.

 In his message during the turnover ceremony, Asec. De Mesa acknowledged the important role of state universities and colleges like CvSU in co-planning, co-managing, co-implementing, and co-financing agri projects. He also said that he looks forward to seeing more experts from the University being involved in various collaboration projects with DA.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, on the other hand, assured Asec. De Mesa of the University's commitment and readiness to partner and collaborate with the Department for the improvement of the agricultural sector of the Province of Cavite.

 Other DA officials present during the turnover ceremony were DA-RFO IV-A OIC Chief for Field Operations Division Engr. Redeliza A. Gruezo, Agricultural Program Coordinating Officer – Cavite Felix Joselito H. Noceda, Indang Municipal Agriculturist Ireneo Bayot, and Regional Agriculture and Fisheries Information Section representative Jerwin de Chavez.

 Meanwhile, witnesses in the turnover were CvSU vice presidents – Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga. Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, Director for Research Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, and officials from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources Dr. Venus Saz, Prof. Guillermo Desinganio, and Prof. Edgardo Gonzales.

 The tractor was part of the P7 million grant to the University by DA thru Sec. William D. Dar.

 Department of Agriculture Asec. Arnel V. De Mesa hands in the Certificate of Award to Dr. Hernando D. Robles. 
 The four-wheel-drive tractor and other implements from the Department of Agriculture.

----- DOC | DA awards 7M worth of agri interventions to CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/16/da-awards-7m-worth-of-agri-interventions-to-cvsu/ | 2022-01-16 -----
A total of P7 million worth of agricultural interventions to effectively implement the programs of the Department of Agriculture was awarded to Cavite State University through DA Secretary William D. Dar  on 9 November 2021.

 Of the said amount, P3million will be for the improvement of the tissue culture laboratory, P2million will be allotted for the establishment of foundation scion grove and the remaining will be for a four-wheel drive tractor.

 Relative to this, DA-Agricultural Program Coordinating Officer Felix Joselito Noceda visited CvSU on 21 December 2021 to discuss with Dr. Hernando D. Robles and Dean Analita DM. Magsino of the College of Agriculture, Food Environment and Natural Resources the materials and/or equipment to be included for the tissue culture laboratory and foundation scion grove.

----- DOC | CvSU gets ISO 9001:2015 recertification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/16/cvsu-gets-iso-90012015-recertification/ | 2022-01-16 -----
Cavite State University received on 10 December 2021 its ISO 9001:2015 recertification certificate from SOCOTEC Certification Philippines.

 The recertification of the Quality Management System (QMS) is a proof of the University's commitment, through the leadership of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, to provide quality instruction, research, and extension services to all stakeholders.

 The original date of certification of the QMS under the ISO 9001:2015 standard was on 4 December  2018. The current certification of the QMS is valid until 3 December  2024.

----- DOC | CHED grants CoN authority to hold limited F2F classes | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/16/ched-grants-con-certificate-of-authority-to-hold-limited-f2face-classes/ | 2022-01-16 -----
The Cavite State University College of Nursing (CoN) has fully complied and passed stringent retrofitting and health standards imposed by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), Department of Health (DOH) and the COVID-19 Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases (IATF-EID). The College can now bring in 3rd and 4th year students for hands-on training and laboratory classes in a limited face-to-face system.

 Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan, Education Supervisor II of CHED IV-A announced on 24 November the issuance to Cavite State University-CoN the certificate of authority for CHED-approved retrofitted facility upon compliance of the minimal deficiency noted.

 Present during the meeting were Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, CHED Region IV-A team headed by Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan, representatives from the Department of Labor and Employment, Department of Interior and Local Government, Local Government Unit of Indang, Cavite, CoN Dean Dr. Evelyn M. del Mundo, Mr. Ivan Derek V. Wycoco, Ms. Jocelyn B. Dimayuga, Ms. Hazel Joyce Guiao, Ms. Glaizalyn N. Camayang, and the rest of the CoN faculty and staff.

 The CvSU-CoN initially plans to during the Second Semester for A.Y. 2021-2022. ( IDVWycoco) 

 Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan and the inspection team with the officials from the College of Nursing.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts consultative meeting with IAPWDI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/gadrc-conducts-consultative-meeting-with-iapwdi/ | 2022-01-13 -----
The GAD Resource Center conducted a consultative meeting with the members of Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) to discuss the plan for the year 2022. The meeting was attended by 3 male and 9 female participants.

 The meeting started with an opening message by Mr. Florian de Borja, President of IAPWDI. Mr. John Renz D. Emelo, Admin staff of GADRC presented the activities done for the year 2021. After the presentation, Mr. Emelo opened the floor for the members of IAPWDI to share the activity they want to conduct for 2022.

 The members agreed to conduct training activities on behavioral problems of guardians while caring for the child, caring and handling the persons with down syndrome, women empowerment, leadership, sign language, disaster preparedness / NDPR Week, RA 7877, RA 11313, and RA 9262 among others. ( JRDEmelo )

----- DOC | SOGIE 101: Understanding of Sexual Orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/sogie-101-understanding-of-sexual-orientation/ | 2022-01-13 -----
In celebration of the 2021 18-Day Campaign to End VAW, Cavite State University GAD Resource Center conducted a webinar on SOGIE 101: Understanding Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression on December 9, 2021, 8:00 am to 12:00 noon. The webinar aimed to increase the level of awareness of the CvSU Community on the dimensions of human sexuality to prevent acts of discrimination against people based on their sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, hence, reinforcing the message of inclusivity in the institution.

 On behalf of the University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, delivered the opening remarks. She emphasized the importance of understanding sexual orientation, gender identity and expression as well as treating everyone equally without discrimination.

 Ms. Joyce Dela Paz-Hilvano, Director, Commission on Population and Development Region V, discussed the topic of Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, Expression, and Sex Characteristic (SOGIESC). She thoroughly explained the basics of SOGIESC at the same time stressing out that there are still a lot of gender discrimination issues that needs to be addressed. She ended her talk by stating that issues in gender discrimination can be lessened by understanding SOGIESC, accepting the differences of each individual and always respecting one another.

 Ms. Sharon Isip, Dean of Office of Student Affair and Services, in her closing remarks reminded everyone of our social responsibility that is to be good and serve in the way that is not harmful to society and our environment. ( MDPAlmarez )

 Ms. Joyce Dela Paz-Hilvano

----- DOC | “BAWAL BASTOS” A webinar on Safe Spaces Act R.A No. 11313 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/bawal-bastos-a-webinar-on-safe-spaces-act-ra-no-11313/ | 2022-01-13 -----
In celebration of the 18-Day Campaign to End VAW, a webinar entitled “Orientation on Safe Spaces Act (RA  11313)” was successfully conducted last November 25, 2021. It was held by Cavite State University in collaboration with the Gender and Development Resource Centre that was quite pertinent and relevant in our society. The webinar was held via Zoom platform and streamed through Facebook live with hundreds of participants. The University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, delivered the welcome remarks where he acknowledged the resource speaker, university officials, faculty members, employees, students and other Facebook live viewers. Mr. Mark Denver P. Almarez Admin Staff, GADRC, explained the objectives of the webinar and the house rules.

 Atty. Eric Paul D. Peralta, an assistant professor at the University of the Philippines Los Baños (UPLB) who is also the current Director of the Human Resource Development Office in UPLB and a Certified Member of the National GAD Resource Pool of the Philippine Commission on Women shared his expertise as resource speaker. He thoroughly discussed the said law and how it applies to the work environment. He mentioned that, safe spaces are places where people feel physically and emotionally safe where they may freely express themselves without the fear of criticism and violence. These exhibits respect for the dignity of all human beings and complete respect for human right, guaranteeing that both men and women enjoy quality, security and safety not only in private but also in streets, public spaces, online, workplaces and educational and training institutions.  In addition, he explained how crucial it is to comprehend declaration policies, important definitions and general acts punishable in Gender Based Sexual Harassment, revealing that Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI) is extremely significant in institutions. Furthermore, a quick demonstration of CSC MC No. 11 series of 2021, ensuring that the Rules on Administrative Cases in the Civil Service (RACCS) are in accordance with what is provided by RA 11313.

 To demonstrate management support for the Gender and Development Resource Centre's advocacy, the vice president of the University's several divisions have issued a Statement of Commitment to End Violence against Women. Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, was the first to speak, followed by Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services and Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, Vice President for Planning and Development. Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Director of Human Resource Development Office, delivered the closing remarks where she ended the event with a statement guaranteeing the faculty members, students, employees, and their stakeholders that the institution can provide a comforting, both physically and emotionally safe environment.

 To ensure that listeners understood the talk, Atty. Peralta gave a quiz on TILT – Things I Learned Today , with free one hour or two hours of legal consultation with him as prizes.

 Atty. Peralta ended his talk with a quote from former Supreme Court US Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg: “Fight for the things that you care about but do it in a way that will lead others to join you.” He also reiterated that everyone has the responsibility to make a safe environment and a secured community free from criticism and harm. A VAWC-free community should start with every individual.

 The event was moderated by Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete, Director of Public Affairs and Communications Office. ( MCPSioco )

 Photos taken during the orientation of Safe Spaces Act 

 University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles delivers his opening remarks. 
 Atty. Eric Paul D. Peralta, resource speaker makes the orientation on Safe Spaces Act. 
 University stakeholders make declaration of commitment to the GAD advocacy. 
 Group photo of the participants. 
 Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Director of Human Resource Development Office, delivers the closing remarks.

----- DOC | WEBINAR ON INTEGRATING A GENDER-SENSITIVE APPROACH IN QUALITATIVE RESEARCH | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/webinar-on-integrating-a-gender-sensitive-approach-in-qualitative-research/ | 2022-01-13 -----
The Cavite State University Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a series of Webinars on Integrating a Gender-Sensitive Approach in Qualitative Research on August 24 and 31 and September 7 and 21, 2021 at 8:00 AM via Zoom Video Conferencing.

 Dr. Miriam Baltazar, Director of Research and GAD Unit Head for Research welcomed all the participants to the webinar. Dr. Baltazar started off the session be levelling up the expectations of all the participants and resource speaker.

 The first topic was Introduction of Qualitative Research and discussed by Prof. Girlie Nora A. Abrigo. The discussion focused on Social Research, Qualitative Research, and Designs. She also explained the Nature of Social Research and the different types such as Exploratory, Descriptive, and Explanatory. She highlighted the differences between Quantitative and Qualitative Research. She also explained the bases for selecting research approach, research problem, research questions, skills of the researcher, and access to the setting and participants.

 On the 2nd day, Prof. Abrigo discussed how to write a research proposal using the research canvas. She gave emphasis on how to use the research canvas in developing the foundation of a qualitative research proposal and identify considerations in writing the different sections of a qualitative research proposal and know what the meaning of the problem is, purpose, research questions, and conceptual and theoretical framework. Dr. Mark Oliver Llangco on the other hand, discussed the topic Writing a Research Proposal using Research Canvas: Keeping U in T-rack.

 On the 3rd day of the webinar, Dr. Llangco discussed the topic Collective Qualitative Data Remotely. He explains what Qualitative Research and Qualitative E-Research are. He emphasized the uses of zoom, email, Viber, Messenger, the Facebook group in Facebook. A qualitative survey via google form is the new learning readiness survey. He also discussed the topic of Engendering Equity and Ethics in Qualitative Research. He explains what gender equality and equity are and the difference between sex and gender. He also said that good social research should be fully ethical. There are 3 core ethical principles. These are respect for the person, concern for welfare, and justice.

 The last day of the webinar was dedicated on evaluating the research proposals prepared by the participants. Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, Vice President for Research and Extension welcomed the participants while Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, Director of Research and GAD Unit Head for Research, delivered the closing remarks. Dr. Baltazar thanked GADRC and everyone for the successful webinar series; she also acknowledged the two speakers. ( MDPAlmarez )

----- DOC | Orientation on Magna Carta of Women for the Members of Indang Association of Persons with Disability | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/orientation-on-magna-carta-of-women-for-the-members-of-indang-association-of-persons-with-disability/ | 2022-01-13 -----
The GAD Resource Center conducted an online Orientation on Magna Carta of Women to the members of the Indang Association of Person's with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) last August 13, 2021. The orientation was attended by 6 male and 34 female participants.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of the GADRC introduced the speaker for the topic.

 Ms. Arlene A. Estrada, GAD Coordinator, CvSU Trece Martires City Campus, discussed the law and emphasized that the Magna Carta of Women is a comprehensive women's human rights law and it seeks to eliminate discrimination through the recognition, protection, fulfillment, and promotion of the rights of Filipino women, especially those belonging in the marginalized sectors of the society.( JRDEmelo)

----- DOC | Human Trafficking Awareness Webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/human-trafficking-awareness-webinar/ | 2022-01-13 -----
The Cavite State University GAD Resource Center conducted a Webinar on Human Trafficking Awareness on July 12, 2021 at 8:00 AM via Video Conferencing. This webinar aimed to inform the general public that human trafficking exists.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GAD-RC delivered the opening remarks on behalf of the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles. Dr. Tan welcomed all participants of the webinar, she mentioned that the month of July is World Day Against Trafficking and our President Duterte declared every July as the National Anti-Trafficking in Person Awareness Month. Meanwhile, Mr. John Renz Emelo, GAD-RC staff, explained the objectives and house rules of the webinar.

 Dr. Teresita R. Tolentino, faculty member from Cavite City Campus discussed the overview of human trafficking, global statistical data, traffickers/offenders, human trafficking in the Philippines, human trafficking for sexual exploitation, forced labor, other forms of exploitation especially to women and children. She also discussed RA 10364 – Expanded Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2012, act to institute eliminate trafficking especially to women and children.

 Ms. Joy Peji, faculty member from the College of Engineering and Information Technology explained Republic Act 9208 as amended by Republic Act 10364. She emphasized the ways on how to protect and support the victims and provide a penalty for the violation of traffickers.

 Ms. Lei Ann B. Rupido, faculty member from College of Nursing discussed forms of trafficking, focus on labor and sex trafficking. She played a 4-minute video about the person who survived human trafficking and also tackled the real situation in the Philippines on Human Trafficking.

 Ms. Sharon Isip, Dean of OSAS, delivered the closing message. She congratulated the organizer of the event, GADRC, and MOVE KATROPA. She also acknowledged resource speakers and participants of the webinar. ( MDPAlmarez )

----- DOC | Orientation on Inclusive Disaster Risk Reduction and Management for IAPWDI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/13/orientation-on-inclusive-disaster-risk-reduction-and-management-for-iapwdi/ | 2022-01-13 -----
The GAD Resource Center conducted a virtual orientation on Inclusive Disaster Risk Reduction and Management in celebration of the Disaster Preparedness Month for the members of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. on July 9, 2021. The webinar was attended by 6 male and 34 female participants.

 Mr. Florian de Borja, President of IAPWD welcomed the participants and Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge for Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation of the GADRC introduced the resource speaker.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC discussed the importance of Disaster Preparedness specially for Persons with Special Needs. She explained the four phases of disaster management. She also showed the statistics of affected PWDs in the Philippines during disaster. She also explained what they should do to be prepared when disaster happens.

 To formally end the webinar, Mr. Romulo Telmo, Vice President, IAPWDI delivered the closing remarks. ( JRDEmelo )

----- DOC | CHED-DOH Joint Memorandum Circular (JMC) No. 2021-004: Guidelines on the Implementation of Limited Face-to-face Classes for All Programs of Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2022/01/03/ched-doh-joint-memorandum-circular-jmc-no-2021-004-guidelines-on-the-implementation-of-limited-face-to-face-classes-for-all-programs-of-higher-education-institutions-heis/ | 2022-01-03 -----
Screenshots from live Public Orientation on CHED-DOH Joint Memorandum Circular (JMC) No. 2021-004: Guidelines on the Implementation of Limited Face-to-face Classes for All Programs of Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) 

 Source: https://www.facebook.com/PhCHED.gov/videos/426015292560891

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 Copy of CHED_DOH Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2021 – 004

 https://ched.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/CHED-DOH-JMC-No.-2021-004.pdf

----- DOC | CvSU HRDO gets PRIME-HRM Maturity Level 2 certification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/12/15/cvsu-hrdo-gets-prime-hrm-maturity-level-2-certification/ | 2021-12-15 -----
The Civil Service Commission (CSC) Regional Office IV virtually held its 2021 Program to Institutionalize Meritocracy and Excellence in Human Resource Management (PRIME-HRM) Recognition Rites on 15 December.

 Photo: Screen grabbed during the virtual event. 
  

 One of the five honorees for two HR Systems is Cavite State University – for meeting the standards/indicators for PRIME-HRM Maturity Level 2 in Recruitment, Selection and Placement (RSP) and Performance Management based on the validated self-assessment and evidence requirements presented.

 With the perseverance of CvSU Human Resource Development Office (HRDO), headed by Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, to elevate the institution's level of excellence for good governance and efficient public service, the University had undergone series of validations with the expert assistance of the CSC Regional Office IV for PRIME-HRM.

 The CvSU PRIME-HRM journey all started on February 2020 with direct assistance from Civil Service Commission (CSC) Field Office. Throughout the year, various evidence requirements were submitted following the observations of CSC until all requirements were fulfilled in November 2021. Along the process, the University observes merit and fitness in the recruitment selection and placement of qualified and competent faculty members and staff. Through the collective efforts of all administrators and employees as measured using the CVSU Strategic Performance Management System, the University was able to provide various human resource interventions to achieve and sustain long term institutional goals.

 In his recorded acceptance speech, Dr. Hernando D. Robles said that the recognition serves as proof of the University's relentless commitment to consistently deliver quality services and promote people excellence. He also acknowledged the dedication and collaborative efforts of the men and women behind CvSU's PRIME-HRM journey.

 Together with Dr. Robles during the virtual recognition rites are VP for Academic Affairs Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, RSP Unit Head Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan, and Finance Management Office Director Ms. Lolita G. Herrera.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles attends the virtual 2021 PRIME-HRM Recognition Rites together with Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, and Dr. Florindo C. Ilagan (not in photo). Photo: Screen grabbed during the virtual event. 
 CvSU HRDO's Recruitment, Selection, and Placement Unit is headed by Dr. Ilagan while Prof. Quintin Subong heads the Performance Management Unit.

 The PRIME-HRM aims to successfully transform the agencies' HRM systems, competencies and practices to elevate public sector human resource to a level of excellence for good governance, and efficient and effective public service delivery. ( MJDTepora & FCIlagan)

----- DOC | BSIS students bag awards in international assembly of youth for UNESCO | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/12/15/bsis-students-bag-awards-in-international-assembly-of-youth-for-unesco/ | 2021-12-15 -----
Three BS International Studies students competed and won in the quiz bowl and essay writing competitions during the recently concluded virtual International Assembly of Youth for UNESCO, hosted by the National Coordinating Body of UNESCO Clubs in the Philippines on 10-12 December via Zoom Conferencing.

 The tandem of Justine Bencito and Mark Nasil Caguing triumphed as they took 1st place in the Quiz Bowl Competition – College Category which focused on UNESCO and the Sustainable Development Goals.

 Meanwhile, Ronan Abalos finished second among over 50 contestants in the Essay Writing Competition on the theme “The Role of the Youth in Protecting Our Ocean Towards Sustainable Development.”

 From Left: Ronan Abalos, Justine Bencito, and Mark Nasil Caguing. 
 Also during the event, the International Studies Students' Association (ISSA) was awarded a Certificate of Good Standing for the third time as one of UNESCO's RE-ACCREDITED clubs in the Philippines. ( JMBencito )

----- DOC | CvSU competes in STRASUC Olympics 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/12/15/cvsu-competes-in-strasuc-olympics-2021/ | 2021-12-15 -----
With the theme “Still Thriving Amidst COVID-19 Pandemic”, the 2021 STRASUC Olympics was held virtually on 06-10 December, hosted by Batangas State University.

 The Cavite State University delegation led by Sports Director Prof. Analiza R. Mojica participated in Arnis, Karatedo, Taekwondo, and Mobile Legends: Bang Bang  ( MLBB).  

 CvSU was able to bring home one gold, seven silver, and nine bronze medals. Cesar Non, who competed for Men's Traditional Anyo – Single Weapon Category, contributed the gold medal. The following are the athletes who won medals in their respective categories: 

 
 
 
 Cesar Non 
 Gold 
 Men's Traditional Anyo – Single Weapon Category 

 
 Arbien De Oro 
 Silver 
 Men's Non-Traditional Anyo – Double Weapon Category 

 
 Daniel Quitaleg 
 Silver 
 Men's Non-Traditional Anyo – Open Weapon Category 

 
 Sinando Porte 
 Bronze 
 Men's Traditional Anyo – Open Weapon Category 

 
 Kenji Acong 
 Bronze 
 Men's Non-Traditional Anyo – Single Weapon Category 

 
 France Andrie Añasco 
 Silver 
 Poomsae – Men's Category B 

 
 Jade Nichole Borabien 
 Silver 
 Poomsae – Women's Category B 

 
 Majarmi Ella Javier 
 Bronze 
 Poomsae – Women's Category A 

 
 Cess Jewel Quirap 
 Silver 
 Speed Kicking – Female Category B 

 
 Khaleel Pearl Gallego 
 Bronze 
 Speed Kicking – Female Category A 

 
 Arnielle Benedict Lazareto 
 Bronze 
 Speed Kicking – Male Category A 

 
 Paul Hendrix Escalante 
 Fourth 
 Speed Kicking – Male Category B 

 
 Itchi Ann Dennice Aquino 
 Silver

 Silver 
 Karatedo – Team A Women's Category

 Karatedo Kihon – Women 

 
 John Ralph Cauilan 
 Bronze 
 Karatedo – Team B Men's Category 

 
 Arthur James Bacosa 
 Bronze 
 Karatedo Kihon – Men 

 
 
 Meanwhile, here is the list of the athletes who participated in the different events as well as their coaches: 

 
 
 
 Men's Division 
 Campus 
 Role/Event 

 
 John Ralph G. Cauilan 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Karate Do 

 
 Arthur James A. Bacosa 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Karate Do 

 
 Renato A. Tanglao 
 Main 
 Coach 

 
 
 Women's Division 

 
   
   

 
 Itchi Ann Denniece B. Aquino 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Karate Do 

 
 Julia Cristine R. Tadeo 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Karate Do 

 
 Justine C. Tristeza 
 Main 
 Coach 

 
 Men's Division 
   
   

 
 France Andrie Añasco 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Lazareto, Arnielle Benedict 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Escalante, Paul Hendrix 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Loyola, Chryss Hashley 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Rheynzquel Joyce R. Zaragoza 
 Silang 
 Coach 

 
 Women's Division 
   
   

 
 Khaleel Pearl Gallego 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Ella Mae Bayoneta 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Alyssa Mae Utana 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Abegail Dela Cruz 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Majarmi Ella Javier 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Chrisella Joy Licup 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Jade Nichole Borabien 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Taekwondo 

 
 Dhonalyn Aure 
 USDO 
 Coach 

 
 Men's Division 
   
   

 
 Roberto Jr. De la Cruz 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Aries  Apostol 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Elmer Hernadez 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Nicos Jed Mortel 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Shan John Villarubia 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Charles Advincula 
 CCAT 
 Athlete/ ML 

 
 Nicky Jay R. Evangelista 
 CCAT 
 Coach 

 
 Men's Division 
   
   

 
 Daniel H. Quitaleg 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Gabriel Angelo Esteban 
 Cavite City 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Arbien Joselito K. De Oro 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Cesar M. Non 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Sinando C. Porte JR 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Kenji M. Acong 
 Gen Tri 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 John Cope 
 Main 
 Coach 

 
 Women's  Division 
   
   

 
 Judith A. Varela 
 Carmona 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Jumel N. Sevilla 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Rea C. Benliro 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Jhoanna Michelle P. Valera 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Marielle Floranda 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Miradel Goyala 
 Main 
 Athlete/ Arnis 

 
 Danna Kristalene Orpiana 
 Main 
 Coach

----- DOC | APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION (Main Campus) Second Semester, 2021-2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/12/01/application-for-admission-main-campus-second-semester-2021-2022/ | 2021-12-01 -----
ANNOUNCEMENT: 

 The Second Semester SY 2021-2022 Application for Admission for MAIN CAMPUS will start on November 29, 2021 to January 15, 2022. 

 College admission exam will be waived for Second Semester, AY 2021-2022.

 However, the grades of applicants will be evaluated according to the admission policy of the University and alignment of SHS strand/track will still be implemented.

 The following programs/courses are open for admission ( but with limited slots ):

 TEACHER CERTIFICATE PROGRAM (TCP) 

 (Applicable only for a graduate of Bachelor degree) 

 FOR FIRST YEAR/SECOND COURSER APPLICATION- 

 
 
 
 Courses 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Criminology 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Security Management 

 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education – major in Mathematics 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education – major in Social Studies 

 
 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education – major in Home Economics 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Development Management 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Economics 

 
 Bachelor of Science in International Studies 

 
 Diploma in Midwifery 

 
 Bachelor of Midwifery

 (Applicable for graduate of Diploma in Midwifery only and possess License for Midwife) 

 
 
 FOR TRANSFEREE APPLICATION- 

 
 
 
 Courses 

 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 

 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education – major in Mathematics 

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education – major in Science 

 
 Bachelor of Special Needs Education 

 
 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education – major in Home Economics 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Business Management 

 
 Bachelor of Science in Economics 

 
 Diploma in Midwifery 

 
 Bachelor of Midwifery

 (Applicable for graduate of Diploma in Midwifery only and possess License for Midwife) 

 
 
 
 Online application and submission of requirements – 

 The following are the details:

 
 Applicant will access this link ( https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas ) and answer the online application form for admission

 Applicant will download the accomplished online form and attach 1×1 ID picture and put signature

 The following are the required documents/credentials which can be submitted either in hard copy (thru mail/parcel/courier/drop box) or soft/scanned copy/screenshot (thru Google form link)

 Applicant should only choose one option of submission, either hard copy submission or online submission. No double-sending of submission.

 
 Teacher Certificate Program (TCP) applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certification Credentials – Copy of Transcript of Records

 
 First year applicants (SHS graduates): 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Copy of Grade 12 completed report card; and

 Copy of Certification of good moral character

 
 ALS passer applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Copy of Certificate of Rating; and

 Copy of Certification of good moral character

 Reminder : ALS passer can only choose non-board courses/programs for application

 
 Transferee applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certification Credentials – Copy of Transcript of Records or Certificate of Grades (for the initial evaluation of college)

 Other required documents such as copy of Honorable Dismissal, copy of Certificate of Good Moral Character, copy of NBI/Police Clearance shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College concerned

 
 Second-course applicants (those who finished a two-year program or a four-year degree program): 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certification Credentials – Copy of Transcript of Records or Certificate of Grades (for the initial evaluation of college)

 Other required document such as copy of Honorable Dismissal shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College concerned

 
 
 
 Applicant will submit application and required documents either (choose only one) through the following manner:

 
 
 Google form link:   https://forms.gle/M34DKKZQSchmZDZR9 

 
 
 Mail/parcel/courier.

 
 Address:          

 Admission Services-Office of Student Affairs and Services 

 Cavite State University-Main Campus

 Bancod, Indang, Cavite 4122

 
 Drop box at CvSU-Main Campus Entrance Gates (Gate 1 & Gate 2)

 
 
 
 FOR TRANSFEREE APPLICANT- The grades reflected in the Transcript of Record (TOR) / Certificate of Grades (COG) of transferees and second coursers will be evaluated in accordance with the admission/retention policy of CvSU. The grade requirement for transferee is GPA of 2.00 (equivalent of 85%) or better and no failed grades.

 FOR TRANSFEREE APPLICANT- No transferee or transferee-shiftee shall be admitted for the mentioned above courses/programs after the second-year level 

 
 PLEASE TAKE NOTE: ADMISSION APPLICATION FOR SY 2022-2023 WILL START ON FEBRUARY 2022. FURTHER ANNOUNCEMENT WILL BE POSTED.

----- DOC | CvSU grad lands Top 6 in agri board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/11/24/cvsu-grad-lands-top-6-in-agri-board-exam/ | 2021-11-24 -----
The Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) recently announced that  1,172  out of  3,927  passed the November 2021 Agriculturist Licensure Examination.

 Marco Felix S. Valdez 
 Marco Felix S. Valdez of Cavite State University placed sixth in the exam with a rating of 83.84%. Valdez, who graduated in 2019, is an Animal Science major.

 The University garnered a 75% overall performance while the national passing percentage is at 29.84%

----- DOC | CvSU architecture student wins 1st STRUKTURA design competition | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/11/24/arch-student-wins-1st-struktura-design-competition/ | 2021-11-24 -----
Ezekiel Dela Cruz, a 5 th year BS Architecture student, was hailed Champion during the 1 st STRUKTURA Design Competition with the theme, “Affordable Housing for a Better Normal” sponsored by SCG, a leading conglomerate in the ASEAN specializing in world-class construction materials, and Mariwasa, a pioneer in the Philippine ceramic tile industry.

 The contest aimed to showcase the skills and creativity of architecture students from different colleges and universities in the country and challenged local architecture students to develop ideas for disaster-proof and innovative Filipino homes. The initiative also focused on addressing housing backlogs, with the hopes of providing sustainable home ideas as the country continues to fight COVID-19.

 Dela Cruz clinched the top spot with his design entry, 'BAHAY CoMbo', (a moniker derived from the Tagalog term, ' Bahay Kubo '), which means 'a house made up of the combination of concrete and bamboo.' The overall design is a modern take and twist from the traditional bahay kubo 's conventional construction methodology, vernacular materiality and multi-functionality. His winning design earned him a cash prize of Php 100,000 plus a gaming laptop while his adviser and the University got a cash prize Php 15,000 and Php 30,000, respectively. Architect Kenn Paolo Valero from the Department of Civil Engineering of the College of Engineering and Information Technology served as the design mentor and concept coach.

 Dela Cruz's Bahay CoMbo design. 
 Here are the Top 10 finalists in the competition:

 
 
 
 NAME 
 ENTRY 
 SCHOOL 

 
 EZEKIEL DELA CRUZ 
 BAHAY COMBO 
 CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY 

 
 CHESTER NEIL  CUNANAN 
 KUWADRADO 
 UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES – DILIMAN 

 
 HAMMIDA  SUMPINGAN 
 THE REFUGE 
 RIZAL TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY – BONI 

 
 KHRISTOFHER GIL  BAMBILLA 
 KASA HAPINOY 
 TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF THE  PHILIPPINES – MANILA 

 
 JOSHUA BRIAN PHIL  DELATADO 
 AGPANG 
 TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF THE  PHILIPPINES – QC 

 
 JUAT JORAM 
 PAGTAENGAN 
 NATIONAL UNIVERSITY – MANILA 

 
 VIELLETE ANGELA  MARIE ARDEVELA 
 META OASIS 
 TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF THE  PHILIPPINES – QC 

 
 DHENNIES RIVAS 
 KUBO 'NG' 20 
 NUEVA ECIJA UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND  TECHNOLOGY 

 
 LOUIS PHILIP BAYLA 
 LU-CID HOUSE 
 CAGAYAN DE ORO COLLEGE 

 
 FRANCIS JOHN PAUL  VIDAL 
 M.A.R.S. 
 DE LA SALLE UNIVERSITY – DASMARIÑAS 

 
 
 The entries were judged based on: Architectural Planning and Design (40%), Innovativeness (20%), SCG and Mariwasa Product Usage (20%) and Sustainability (20%). (RPPeña)

----- DOC | US Embassy, FLTA Alumni Ph, CvSU collab for language project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/11/10/us-embassy-flta-alumni-ph-cvsu-collab-for-language-project/ | 2021-11-10 -----
Funded under the 2021 Alumni Meet Small Grants Phase II with US Embassy,  Fulbright FLTA Alumni Association Philippines and Cavite State University  collaborated for the implementation of a language-related project entitled “ W ALK THE TALK: W ebinar-Workshop to A dvance L anguage N etwork and develop an online T eaching and L earning K iosk for English Language Educators” from October to December 2021.

 The said project was facilitated by faculty members under the Department of Humanities in partnership with Language Study Center and Pragmaticus, the student organization of CvSU students taking up BA English Language Studies. This aims to address changes and challenges in language teaching as English language educators from various institutions around the country participate.

 WALK THE TALK is composed of three components: 1) webinar series on teaching English online; 2) daily lesson log/learning guide competition for all participants; and 3) development of an online kiosk where sample lesson logs may be accessed for free.

 The two-part webinar was conducted on 27 and 29 October with the following topics: 1) e-Module Preparation by Dr. Hazel D. Joaquin of Capiz State University; 2) Humanizing Teaching Online by Dr. Anne Richie G. Balgos of De La Salle University – Manila; 3) Assessment of Activities in Language Classes in the New Normal by Ms. Luisa Mejia, Virtual English Language Fellow from Florida, USA; and 4) Interactive and Engaging Teaching Strategies by John Paul dela Rosa, Fulbright FLTA  Alumnus from Tarlac National High School-Annex.

 

 

 More than 200 faculty members and students from 66 educational institutions around the country attended the said webinar series. Dr. Irish F. Dalona, President of Fulbright FLTA Alumni Association Philippines also inspired the participants with her message while also promoting the scholarship opportunities offered by Fulbright.

 Early this 2021, the webinar “TEACH AND REACH” organized by the Central Luzon State University, through the Phase I of the grant has tapped on the innovative strategies in the teaching of language and literature in Region 3 and other provinces. This second project aims to expand the network of English language educators and develop an online kiosk of accessible teaching materials to a greater number of beneficiaries in the country. Materials for the website will be coming from the competition which will recognize four best entries in Reading, Writing, Listening and Speaking.

 This project aims to move from knowledge acquisition to creation which is a more sustainable way of preparing for a future-proof English language education. (LAOrsal)

----- DOC | Gentri Campus' renovated building, inaugurated | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/11/03/gentri-campus-renovated-building-inaugurated/ | 2021-11-03 -----
The blessing and inauguration of the newly-renovated Martina S. Ferrer and Teofilo G. Grepo Buildings in CvSU General Trias Campus was held on 29 October. Vice President for Administrative Support Services and OIC of the Office of the President Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, together with the local government unit and CvSU-Gen. Trias Campus officials, led the occasion.

 Congressman Luis “Jon-jon” A. Ferrer, Mayor Antonio “Ony” A. Ferrer, and Dr. Camilo A. Polinga during the ribbon cutting ceremony in the newly-renovated building in CvSU – General Trias Campus. (Photo screen grabbed from City Government of General Trias Facebook page). 
 Dr. Polinga hailed the event as another milestone for the nine-year old campus. For his part, Dr. Lauro B. Pascua, Gen. Trias Campus Administrator recalled how the construction began as soon as he assumed the deanship of the said campus.

 Congressman Luis “Jon-jon” A. Ferrer who initiated the renovation along with Mayor Antonio “Ony” A. Ferrer, and Vice Mayor Maurito “Morit” C. Sison and the Sangguniang Panlungsod councilors were full-force in the said event. The young congressman, in an interview with The Gentri Chronicles said, “Isa ako sa mga witnesses ng transformation ng ating campus kasi during our time, wayback 2021 nuong hiniling natin ang extension ng CvSU sa GenTri, nag-umpisa tayo sa 24 students and in 9 years, we have almost 2,000 students at daan-daan narin ang mga nagsipagtapos dito… hopefully, tuloy-tuloy lang ang pagtutulungan ng CvSU, ng lokal na pamahalaan at ng national government.”

 Rev. Fr. Ronnie de Paz, Missionary Priest and Faculty Member of CvSU-GenTri officiated the blessing of the buildings. The Faculty and Staff of Gen. Trias Campus and the campus student leaders were also present to witness the event. (NBManarpiis/GAUtana) 

 The newly-renovated Martina S. Ferrer Building in CvSU – General Trias Campus. (Photo screen grabbed from City Government of General Trias Facebook page).

----- DOC | CvSU S&T projects featured in DOST-CALABARZON 2021 RSTW | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/11/03/cvsu-st-projects-featured-in-dost-calabarzon-2021-rstw/ | 2021-11-03 -----
Two science and technology projects of the University were included in the five projects highlighted by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) – CALABARZON during the 2021 Regional Science and Technology Week (RSTW) celebration last month.

 The said projects, both developed in collaboration with DOST-CALABARON, are the Field-Test Kit for Detection of Methanol Contamination in Alcoholic Beverages by Dr. Hosea D. Matel and DOST–Science Education Institute (DOST-SEI) science research specialist Jon Uriel Layos and the Tissue Culture Growth Chamber for Mass Propagation of Coffee and Makapuno by the National Coffee Research, Development, and Extension Center. Other featured S&T projects announced by Regional Director Emelita P. Bagsit during the event include the DOST Technology in the Region for Upscaling of Community Knowledge (DOSTRUCK); CALABARZON Food Solutions Hub (CFOSH) Vacuum Freeze Drying Facilities; and Gulayan sa Pamayanan Project with Caritas Manila, Inc.

 Although still in the development phase, the field test kit intends to provide an easy and affordable way for local lambanog distillers to determine the methanol content in their product samples. The tissue culture growth chamber, on the other hand, aims to produce disease-free coffee and makapuno seedlings in shorter period of time.

 Moreover, the University, through Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, will be providing technical assistance in the DOSTRUCK, a food safety-compliant and mobile food processing hub, currently run by the local government unit of Magallanes, Cavite.

----- DOC | CvSU wins 4 medals in national karate tournament | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/29/cvsu-wins-4-medals-in-national-karate-tournament/ | 2021-10-29 -----
Karate athletes from Cavite State University claimed four medals – including 1 gold, 2 silvers, and 1 bronze – during the 1st National University Virtual Kata Championship 2021 sponsored by the Federation of Schools Sports Association of the Philippines (FESSAP) Karate Club in collaboration with Batangas State University on 27-28 October.

 Among the 16 entries in the Women's Division and 8 entries in the Men's Division, Itchi Ann Denniece Aquino claimed gold in Women Category B, John Ralph G. Cauilan and Julia Christine R. Tadeo bagged silver in Men Category B and Women Category B, respectively, and Arthur James A. Bacosa won bronze in Men Category A.

 Ms. Justine Tristeza from the College of Criminal Justice and Mr. Renato A. Tanglao from the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation served as their coaches.

 According to CvSU Sports Director Ana Liza R. Mojica, the competition was held to determine the final members of the Philippine Karate Delegation to the 20th ASEAN University Games, which will be held in Ubon Ratchathani, Thailand on July 26 – August 6, 2022.

 CvSU Karate athletes (L-R) Julia Christine R. Tadeo, John Ralph G. Cauilan Arthur James A. Bacosa, and Itchi Ann Denniece Aquino pose with (L-R) Coach Justine Tristeza, CvSU Sports Director Ana Liza R. Mojica, and Coach Renato Tanglao after the shoot of their video entries to the 1st National University Virtual Kata Championship 2021.

----- DOC | Main Campus Library conducts information literacy session | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/29/main-campus-library-conducts-information-literacy-session/ | 2021-10-29 -----
The Ladislao N. Diwa Memorial Library conducted its first virtual information literacy session on 27 October. The session was attended by students, faculty, and staff from the CvSU Main Campus and satellite campuses: Imus, Bacoor, Carmona, Cavite City, Gen. Trias, Rosario, Silang,  Tanza, and Trece Martires City Campuses.

 Ms. Veronica L. De Villa, in-charge of the Filipiniana and Periodicals Sections and the Public Information Officer of the University Library gave the participants a walk through on database navigation and on how to use the Online E-Books Platforms like the CvSU E-Books Module, Tritech Digital Media, and IG Library effectively.

 The highlights of the session are the online library services particularly on how to access and find e-books using the CvSU Integrated Library System. Other online services of the University Library were also shared such as the Online Printed Book Delivery Program; Theses Abstract Request; Library BookShare Corner for persons with visual disabilities. The speaker also encouraged the participants to join the University Library mailing lists to receive updates on its latest acquisitions and services offered.

 The University Library also introduced various platforms on how to reach and access the library to support the information needs of all its library users. These platforms are as follows:

website http://library.cvsu.edu.ph/ ; 

 email cvsulibrary@cvsu.edu.ph ;

Facebook Page https://www.facebook.com/cvsulibrary ; and

YouTube Channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1dyBQ2aFGHvSD95n5R2IuQ/about 

 The presentation slides may be accessed thru this link https://bit.ly/3mncq6u .

 Here are some of the comments from the participants:

 “The activity is fun and exciting. May palaro si Ma'am nakakatuwa. Talagang marami po kaming natututunan about Library details. Mabuhay, CvSU!” 

 “The discussion is very helpful especially for those students who want to have access in e-books.” 

  “Humbled and grateful [for] this opportunity, thank you so much speaker for the very informative and very timely webinar.” 

 The Information Literacy Session of the University Library aims at promoting its services, resources and collections to cater to the information needs of its community. This event is also a part of the University Library's efforts in #BringingTheLibraryToYou. (PNRoderno)

----- DOC | CvSU entries win in STAARRDEC's 34th RSRDEH | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/28/cvsu-entries-win-in-staarrdecs-34th-rsrdeh/ | 2021-10-28 -----
Cavite State University bagged the Best Research Paper award in the Research and Development categories, respectively, 2 nd Best Extension Paper, and Best Extension Poster during the Southern Tagalog Agriculture, Aquatic, and Resources Research Development and Extension Consortium's (STAARRDEC) 34 th Regional Symposium on Research, Development and Extension Highlights on 20 October 2021 via Zoom and Facebook Live.

 Dr. Mirriam D. Baltazar and Ms. Arleen Calipjo-Panaligan's paper entitled “DNA Fingerprinting of Philippine Coffee ( Coffea spp.)” topped all entries and earned the Best Paper Award in the Research Category. On the other hand, Dr. Ruel M. Mojica and his co-authors Ms. Rosalie A. Pelle, Mr. Aeron R. Mojica and Mr. Andrew J. Siducon, in the paper entitled “Piloting and Commercialization of Specialty Coffee Blends” bested the paper presentations in the Development Category.

 Meanwhile, “Transforming Silan's Farm in Indang Cavite into Science for the Convergence of Agriculture and Tourism (SciCAT)” of Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Dr. Yolanda A. Ilagan, Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Ms. Lady Aileen A. Orsal, Dr. Fe N. Dimero, Ms. Bernadette S. Amparo, Ms. Roselle G. Esguerra, Ms. Bessielyn V. Naños, Ms. Sheena Mae L. de Leon, and Ms. Raecel H. Lukban won the 2 nd Best Extension Paper award while its poster entry got the Best Extension Poster award.

 This year's RSRDEH theme is “Science and Technology: Enhancing the Sustainability and Resiliency of the Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Sectors.”

----- DOC | Bee Program wins 2021 PhilEASNet's outstanding extension project award | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/28/bee-program-wins-2021-phileasnets-outstanding-extension-project-award/ | 2021-10-28 -----
The Cavite State University Bee Program was hailed as Outstanding Extension Project during the 2021 Virtual Philippine Extension and Advisory Services Network (PhilEASNet) Biennial AFFNR Extension Symposium held on 14-15 October via Zoom.

 During the event, Prof. Michele T. Bono, presented the overview of “The Cavite State University Bee Program: Adopting Communities for Responsible Beekeeping” to extension professionals and practitioners from government agencies, state universities and colleges, among others.

 The said award is shared with the Agricultural Training Institute's (ATI) Digital Farmers Program (DFP).

 With the theme “Governance of Extension Systems for the New Future”, the symposium generally aims to update and engage the extension and advisory (EAS) professionals and practitioners in the discourse of the current governance initiatives towards strengthening EAS.

----- DOC | Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering grad tops board exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/28/agricultural-and-biosystems-engineering-grad-tops-board-exam/ | 2021-10-28 -----
Cavite State University graduate Mariella Jezreel R. Oliver obtained the 8 th place in the September 2021 Agricultural and Biosystems Engineer Licensure Examination.

 CvSU's overall performance is pegged at 57.89% while the national passing percentage is 36.42%.

 The following are the new licensed Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers:

 
 Lino M. Alano II

 Maritoni T. Babaan

 Marie Ann B. De Jesus

 Danielle M. Jimeno

 Liam Rober A. Lagarto

 Denise V. Loredo

 Jan Dominic P. Lucero

 Lira Virginia B. Mora

 Mariella Jezreel R. Oliver

 Sarah Mae C. Pejana

 Arnelyn S. Romilla

----- DOC | Dye-sensitized solar cells vie in the 5th STCIERD R&D competition | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/28/dye-sensitized-solar-cells-vie-in-the-5th-stcierd-rd-competition/ | 2021-10-28 -----
Engr. Gee Jay Bartolome's research and development project entitled “Performance of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells with Natural Dye from Local Tropical Plants”, which was conducted with Engr. Al Eugene Torres, Engr. Jhon Patrick de Mesa, and and Engr. Judy Ann O. Adona, was part of the five finalists in the Southern Tagalog Consortium for Industry and Energy Research and Development (STCIERD) 5th Science and Technology Forum and Competition in Industry and Energy Research and Development Region IV-A.

 Other finalist projects were entries from the University of the Philippines Los Baños and Batangas State University. The finalists presented their researches to the Board of Judges for final evaluation on 24 September 2021.

 Winners in the competition were announced during Awarding and Closing Ceremonies of the 2021 Regional Science and Technology Week (RSTW) on 13 October 2021 via Zoom. CvSU's entry emerged as 1 st Runner Up.

 

 “Performance of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells with Natural Dye from Local Tropical Plants” was adjudged as 1 st Runner Up in the 5th STCIERD R&D Competition.

----- DOC | Imus Campus faculty speak on statistics and data processing | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/28/imus-campus-faculty-speak-on-statistics-and-data-processing/ | 2021-10-28 -----
Dr. Marlon A. Mojica and Dr. Liane Vina G. Ocampo were recently invited as resource speakers in a training workshop organized by the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) in conjunction with the 32nd National Statistics Month held at the Bayleaf Cavite, with the theme “NSM@32: Revving Up for Economic and Social Recovery Through Evidence-Based Policies.”

 Dr. Ocampo discussed about the critical process and appropriate methods of data collection, identifying and performing the appropriate descriptive statistical analyses, and presenting the results in an effective manner training. She also asked to participants to do simulation exercises.

 Meanwhile, Dr. spoke about statistical inference as well as the most commonly used statistical techniques for micro and macroeconomic analysis in his presentation. He focused on minimizing the mathematical burden by employing a variety of statistical programs that can assist the participants in data processing and interpretation.

 The training workshop was attended by employees of PSA-Cavite. (LVGOcampo) 

 

 Drs. Marlon A. Mojica and Liane Vina G. Ocampo receive their certificates of appreciation as resource speakers during the 32nd National Statistics Month. 
 Drs. Marlon A. Mojica and Liane Vina G. Ocampo receive their certificates of appreciation as resource speakers during the 32nd National Statistics Month.

----- DOC | GAD-RC conducts planning and budgeting workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/14/gad-rc-conducts-planning-and-budgeting-workshop/ | 2021-10-14 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a planning and  budgeting workshop on October 6-7, 2021, via Zoom.

 Participated in by twenty-six (26) female and eight (8) male college/campus and unit GAD  coordinators and alternates, the workshop aimed to enhance their knowledge and skills in  preparing their respective GAD plan and budget for 2022. It also targeted to identify programs,  projects, and activities that will address gender issues in the university and adopted communities,  as well as to enhance their awareness on the value of the GAD program as a tool in developing  a highly gender responsive university.

 The first day of the workshop focused on explaining the mandates that determine the  importance of planning and budgeting for GADRC. Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, the speaker, gave a  walk-through by discussing the definition and nature of GAD planning and budgeting and gave  emphasis on the three main classifications of the programs and activities, namely: the client

 focused, organizational-focused, and attributed projects and programs.

 Meanwhile, the second day started with a recap of what happened during the first day by  Mr. Ariel Rivera, GAD coordinator of Naic Campus. After the recap, the participants presented  their own plan and budget for the year 2022 in their respective college/campus and unit. Each  was given time to present their output and Ms. Raecel A. Estebat assisted in enhancing their  plans and budget.

 To wrap up the success of the workshop, Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, Director of Finance  Management Office, delivered the closing remarks by reminding the participants that GAD  planning should be integrated in the regular activities of the agencies which shall be at least five  percent (5%) of their total budget. She also discussed the essential elements that must be present  in creating a plan and budget which served as a challenge for the participants – creation/strengthening of the GAD focal system, clear understanding and appreciation of GAD,  conduct of gender audit, institutionalized GAD database/ Sex aggregation data. ( KCFrancisco)

----- DOC | The CvSU Bookshare Corner | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/06/the-cvsu-bookshare-corner/ | 2021-10-06 -----
Bookshare: An Online Library for People with Visual Disabilities in collaboration with Cavite State University – Gender and Development Resource Center Gender and Development Resource Center and Bookshare Benetech, we introduce our new addition to our growing Online Library Programs and Resources. The CvSU Bookshare Corner.

 

 

 
 This online library program is open to all persons with visual disabilities. It is available from Mondays to Thursdays, from 7 am to 6 pm.

 

 

 
 Procedures:

 

 

 
 1) SEARCH for the e-book(s) title with audible narration you wish to access via https://www.bookshare.org/cms/ 

 

 
 2) SEND your request(s) to us via the link below

 https://bit.ly/3i93DTh 

 

 
 3) We will DELIVER the book(s) with audible narration via email.

----- DOC | CHED-funded HECTOR Project to hold webinar series | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/06/ched-funded-hector-project-to-hold-webinar-series/ | 2021-10-06 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) Don Severino de las Alas Campus is set to hold a webinar series on Transnational Education and Internationalization from October to November 2021 via Zoom. This is a kick off activity of the Higher Education Cooperation towards Transnational education Open Resource (HECTOR) Program under its Project 3, capacity building on internationalization and transnational education (TNE) and Project 4, promotion and advocacy of TNE.

 Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, principal investigator and program manager expects that this virtual workshop on the use of HECTOR system and webinar series will serve as an avenue for HEIs in the Philippines to discover more ways of promoting and advocating TNE across the globe and reshaping the international education sector towards resiliency and sustainability.

 Invited speakers are from CHED, British Council, Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities Commission on Accreditation (PACUCOA), Coordinating Council of Private Educational Associations of the Philippines (COCOPEA), University of the Philippines, University of Santo Tomas, De La Salle University, Lyceum of the Philippines University, Polytechnic University of the Philippines, among others.

 Registration for the webinar is FREE thru this link https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScda6dXCpM_4AiuIm4IiDJBvjjc7wiJOmRm8-rEOtmujdU1FA/viewform?usp=pp_url.

 HECTOR, a two-year project is a collaborative RDE program of Cavite State University and Technological University of the Philippines-Taguig Campus, is multidisciplinary in nature consisting of four components with research output for each project. Further details about the project can be accessed through its website ( www.hectorph.net ) and Facebook Page (CHED Program Hector).   ( ARCSolis)

----- DOC | CvSU – Rosario creative researches vie in 2021 Regional Invention Contest and Exhibits | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/06/cvsu-rosario-creative-researches-vie-in-2021-regional-invention-contest-and-exhibits/ | 2021-10-06 -----
Two entries of Cavite State University – Rosario Campus got the second and third places under the Likha Award category in the 2021 Regional Invention Contest and Exhibits (RICE) sponsored by the Technology Application and Promotion Institute of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST-TAPI). 

   

 The Fish Smoking Machine of Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome, Ms. Vennus Florence N. Vicedo, Mr. John Patrick D. Buco, and Dr. Camilo A. Polinga was adjudged second outstanding government-funded creative research while GoTrace Contact Tracing Application of Ms. Mary Anne E. Ignacio, Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome, Mr. John Patrick D. Buco, and Mr. Rhuzel Leinster Dean J. Julian got third place. 

   

 According to the DOST-TAPI website, RICE gives due recognition to the outstanding invention through the  Tuklas  Award, outstanding utility model through the  Unlad  Award, outstanding industrial design through the  Banghay  Award, outstanding creative research through the  Likha  Award, and outstanding student creative research for high school and college students through the  Sibol  Award.  

   

 The competition was open to both public and private inventors and researchers in the region. Contestants underwent the qualifying round judged by highly competent professionals comprising the panel of judges. Five qualifiers moved forward to the final round where they had the chance to present and demonstrate their entries before the panel of judges. The finalists were judged according to the set criteria which include novelty, commercial viability, stage of development and cost, unique value proposition, and scientific and technical merits, among others. 

   

 The virtual awarding ceremony was held on 29 September 2021.

----- DOC | CvSU students win awards in Cavite Tourism Month Celebration 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/06/cvsu-students-win-awards-in-cavite-tourism-month-celebration-2021/ | 2021-10-06 -----
To foster awareness and further uphold the social and economic impact of tourism, the Provincial Government of Cavite through the Provincial Tourism and Cultural Affairs Office celebrated the Cavite Tourism Month last September with the theme “Tourism for Inclusive Growth”. Aside from the tourism conference and other activities, part of the celebration were the essay writing contest and tour guiding competition held on 25 September 2021.

 Students from Cavite State University swept the essay writing contest as Ms. Cherika Valdezco (BS Tourism Management, CvSU-Tanza), Ms. Blessilda Aspa (BS International Studies, CvSU-Main) and Ms. Camille Flores (BS Tourism Management, CvSU-Main) won the Tourism Trends and Demands, Tourism Recovery, and Sustainable Tourism Development categories, respectively. The essay writing contest revolved on the theme “The Role of Young Community Champions in the Tourism for Inclusive Growth.”

 

 

 

 Meanwhile, BS Tourism Management students from the Main Campus namely, Mr. Jomel Ian Arboso and Ms. Jeraldine Ruth Matel Baes won the first and second runner up, respectively during the virtual tour guiding competition. During the competition, Mr. Arboso showcased Sta Cruz Convent Museum, Sinudsod, Maragondon River and Regada Festival while Ms. Baes presented Buhay Forest, Tilbok, Pahimis Festival and Gingerbread House.

 Photos: Screen grabbed Cavite Tourism Facebook Page

----- DOC | SMART donates 5G-ready SIM cards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/05/smart-donates-5g-ready-sim-cards/ | 2021-10-05 -----
Smart Communication's Inc. donated free Smart 5G-ready TNT SIMs for students, faculty members, and staff of Cavite State University. With the free TNT SIMs, students and other stakeholders could register to Smart's Infocast and receive updates from the University.

 VP for Administrative and Support Services Camilo A. Polinga receives the SIM cards from Ms. Mary Beth S. Pili, SMART Communication's representative.

----- DOC | CvSU-Rosario faculty conference papers in Scopus-indexed publications | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/05/cvsu-rosario-faculty-conference-papers-in-scopus-indexed-publications/ | 2021-10-05 -----
Two research papers from Cavite State University – Rosario Campus were included in the selected high-quality research papers presented at the Sixth International Congress on Information and Communication Technology (ICICT), hosted by Brunel University of London, United Kingdom. Out of the 1,150 entries from over 90 countries received by the organizers of the  event, only 350 qualified for presentation, two  of which were from CvSU-CCAT.

 The said research papers were:  “ Crime Mapping Approach for Crime Pattern Identification: A Prototype for the Province of Cavite” of Mr. Aries M. Gelera and “ Development and Pilot Testing of GoTrace: A Web Application For Contact Tracing Using Quick Response Codes” by Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome, Ms. Mary Ann E. Ignaco, Mr. Rhuzel Leinster Dean J. Julian and Mr. John Patrick Buco.

 Both conference papers are included in the recently published Springer Journals for the Proceedings of Sixth International Congress on Information and Communication Technology. (RLDJJulian) 

 Read them here:

 https://link.springer.com/…/10.1007/978-981-16-2380-6_79 

 https://link.springer.com/…/10.1007/978-981-16-1781-2_71

----- DOC | Escobar designated as VP for planning and development; Magcawas in STAARRDEC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/10/05/escobar-designated-as-vp-for-planning-and-development-magcawas-in-staarrdec/ | 2021-10-05 -----
Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, a professor from the College of Engineering and Information Technology and the former Consortium Director of Southern Tagalog Agriculture, Aquatic, and Resources Research, Development and Extension Consortium (STAARRDEC) and, has been designated to head the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development  effective 15 September 2021. A simple turnover ceremony was held  on the same day. Dr. Escobar succeeds Dr. Leyma L. Cero.

 

 Meanwhile, Extension Services Director Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, concurrently serves  as OIC consortium director of  STAARRDEC.

----- DOC | CvSU internationalization initiative bags 3rd best in CALABARZON | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/23/cvsu-internationalization-initiative-bags-3rd-best-in-calabarzon/ | 2021-08-23 -----
Highlighting the internationalization initiatives of the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) in language education, Cavite State University won third Best Higher Education Institution (HEI) as Commission on Higher Education Region IVA celebrates 2021 ASEAN Month this August.

 Anchored on the theme “We Care. We Prepare. We Prosper”, CvSU's video entry focused on creating impact to the global community through language and multicultural programs offered by the Language Study Center under CAS. These include: 1) Intensive English Proficiency Course with 50 Taiwanese students from National Penghu University in 2019; 2) SWAP SHOP 2019 that capacitate foreign language teachers in various research-based and gender-sensitive methodologies; 3) SWAP SHOP 2021, a webinar series with international speakers sharing insights and tips in facilitating virtual classes; and 4) online Filipino101 Class for foreigners that catered to international students from CvSU, India and some Fulbright scholars. CvSU students, taking part as language buddies of some students from the University of Michigan and presenters in the Filipino language table of the Southeast Asian Club at Northern Illinois University, also became part of the presentation in addition to some collaborations through faculty scholarships, research, and internships abroad.

 Lyceum of the Philippines University-Batangas bagged the first prize while LPU-Cavite placed second. Meanwhile, Southern Luzon State University and University of Perpetual Help System Dalta-Molino campus also made it to the Top 5 of the competition.

 The announcement of winners was conducted through Zoom and streamed on Facebook Live on 20 August. ( LAAOrsal) 

 

 

 Watch the video entry.

----- DOC | CvSU holds Management Review | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/20/cvsu-holds-management-review/ | 2021-08-20 -----
Members of the Administrative Council, QMS Core Team, and Secretariat convened via CISCO Webex on 18 August for this year's Management Review. The review aimed to evaluate the changes in external and internal issues, performance and effectiveness of the system, adequacy of resources, effectiveness of actions taken to address risks and opportunities, and opportunities for improvement of the University's QMS. This event was spearheaded by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, who is optimistic that the organization continues to fulfill its duty of providing quality service to its stakeholders.

 The University's QMS is set for its recertification audit on 02 September.

----- DOC | CvSU partners with Benetech/BookShare | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/20/cvsu-partners-with-benetechbookshare/ | 2021-08-20 -----
To address the needs of students and other clients with print disabilities, Cavite State University, through the initiative of the Gender and Development Resource Center, partnered with Benetech to set up a BookShare Corner in the University Library. This is the first-ever BookShare Corner set up in a university library in the Philippines and a pioneer BookShare Corner in CALABARZON.

 Benetech is a US-based non-profit organization supporting people with disabilities through BookShare ebook library that makes reading easier for people with dyslexia, blindness, cerebral palsy, and other reading barriers.

 During its virtual launching on 19 August, CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, in his message delivered by VP for Academic Affairs Dr. Agnes P. Nuestro, acknowledged the greater disadvantage faced by the visually impaired when it comes to content and information. He also expressed his gratitude to Benetech for choosing CvSU as one of its beneficiaries for the eLibrary that will cater to the reading needs of people who are blind or have other disabilities that affect reading.

 

 Benetech's VP for Global Literacy Mr. Brad Turner graced the virtual event and complimented CvSU for its efforts to create impact by bringing appreciation to reading to the most disadvantaged groups. Likewise,  BookShare Philippines Ambassador Ms. Maria Criselda “Krissy” Bisda expressed her admiration to CvSU for making disability inclusion possible. She hopes that the University will be able to inspire more universities, not only in CALABARZON but also outside the region, to promote disability inclusion in their respective institutions. Meanwhile, BookShare Outreach Representative Ms. Ma. Agnes J. Angeles congratulated CvSU for being the university model of BookShare Corner ebook library. Also present are Mr. Butch Robredo, President of the Philippine Blind Union Inc., and Dra. Carmela Ongsiako of the Makati Medical Center and the chief ophthalmologist of BookShare.

 

 This endeavor will not only make CvSU the leading higher education institution in terms of workplace inclusivity and diversity but also, slowly but surely, moving forward to be recognized as a Gender Equality, Disability, and Social Inclusive learning institution. (SGTan)

----- DOC | Hipra Philippines donates hive boxes to CvSU Bee Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/12/hipra-philippines-donates-hive-boxes-to-cvsu-bee-program/ | 2021-08-12 -----
The University received 30 hive boxes as donation from Hipra Philippines, Inc. represented by its Subsidiary Business Manager Dr. Reynaldo Rafael Bono Jr. and Technical Division Head Dr. Joel Tolentino.

 The hive boxes will be loaned to six aspiring beekeepers from Barangay Guyam Munti, one of the adopted communities of the College of Arts and Sciences, through the extension project dubbed “Bahay Para sa Lukot – Iwi System” under the Community Adoption and Strengthening of the CvSU Bee Program. After a year or two, the loaned boxes, with thriving bee colony, shall be returned to CvSU to be loaned again to other adopters.

 The donation were received by VP for Admin and Support Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga representing President Hernando D. Robles, VP for Research and Extension Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, College of Arts and Sciences Dean Dr. Bettina Joyce Ilagan, CAS – Department of Biological Sciences Chairperson Prof. Vernie Peñaflorida, and CvSU Bee Program leader and co-leader Prof. Michele Bono and Prof. Dickson Dimero. Also, present were Guyam  Munti Brgy. Captain Marcelino Cruzada, Brgy. Councilor Ramie Paciente and Mr. Iluminado Matilla.

 Signing the deed of donation. Hipra Philippines Inc. representatives Dr. Joel Tolentino and Dr. Reynaldo Bono Jr., VP for Admin and Support Services Dr. Camilo A. Polinga (representing University 
 HIPRA is a European multinational pharmaceutical company focused on prevention and diagnosis for animal and human health, with a broad range of highly innovative vaccines and an advanced diagnostic service.

 Thank you, Hipra Philippines, Inc.!

----- DOC | Terra Verde Ecofarm partners with CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/12/terra-verde-ecofarm-partners-with-cvsu/ | 2021-08-12 -----
The University recently signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with Terra Verde Ecofarm Inc. (TVEI) to further strengthen the University's extension and advisory services.

 Through this agreement, the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) will extend technical assistance and other services to TVEI. As an initial activity,                For. Junser P. Magpantay will assist TVEI in identifying the scientific name, common name and uses of the flora and fauna present in the farm. This will enable TVEI to promote to the general public the conservation and proper utilization of these flora and fauna.

 The parties who signed the MOA include Dr. Hernando D. Robles, TVEI President Mr. Ericson B. Atanacio represented by Engr. Emerson Atanacio and Dr. Naomi Atanacio, CAFENR Dean Dr. Analita dM. Magsino, and Forester Junser P. Magpantay. The partnership was made possible through the assistance of Ms. Lorna C. Matel, Head of the Community Engagement and External Relations of Extension Services.

 Terra Verde Eco Farm Inc. is located in Maragondon, Cavite and aims to develop their farm as a tourism venue and as an agricultural learning center. ( PGDucusin)

----- DOC | UP Mindanao benchmarks at CvSU – CSPEAR | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/08/02/up-mindanao-benchmarks-at-cvsu-cspear/ | 2021-08-02 -----
As part of UP Mindanao's expansion to effectively fulfill its mandate, they have identified their Department of Human Kinetics (DHE)to be elevated into a college. As such, they have invited Cavite State University – College of Sports Physical Education and Recreation (CSPEAR) to a benchmarking focus group discussion via Zoom on 30 July.

 Attendees from UP Mindanao was headed by DHE Chairperson Erwin Protacio while CSPEAR was represented by its dean Prof. Jazmin P. Cubillo, Service Physical Education Chairperson Erlinda C. Eustaquio and Physical Education, Exercise and Sports Sciences Chairperson Ronnel P. Cuachin. They discussed experiences, enrolment data, and possible future collaborations among others. ( JPCubillo)

----- DOC | QMS auditors conduct quality check | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/29/qms-auditors-conduct-quality-check/ | 2021-07-29 -----
To affirm its commitment to provide quality service, Cavite State University conducts this year's internal quality audit through its Quality Management System (QMS) Team. A pool of qualified QMS auditors, spearheaded by its newly-designated IQA Head, Dr. Ma. Cynthia N. Rundina-Dela Cruz, verify the conformance of university operations to the ISO 9001:2015 Standards, established procedures, and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. A combination of on-site and remote audit is implemented in response to the constraints caused by the pandemic. The activity is scheduled from July 26 up until August 03.

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The University, through this undertaking, holds up to its pledge of continuous improvement and is looking forward to its recertification to QMS Standards in September this year.

----- DOC | CvSU collaborates with UP Diliman Project MapABLE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/29/cvsu-collaborates-with-up-diliman-project-mapable/ | 2021-07-29 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) and University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman recently signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) on a collaborative project entitled “Development of Integrated Mapping, Monitoring, and Analytical Network System for Manila Bay and Linked Systems (MapABLE). The project is a component of a two-year research undertaking funded by DOST-PCIEERD titled “Integrated Mapping, Modelling, and Management System for Manila Bay and Linked Systems (IM4ManilaBay) Program”. Project MapABLE aims to develop and deploy an integrated system for mapping and monitoring of the water quality of Manila Bay and linked systems including major river tributaries using geospatial technologies and citizen science.

 As part of the collaboration, Engr. Edgardo Gubatanga and Engr. Amihan Manuel of University of the Philippines, Diliman visited CvSU on 21-23 July to conduct a three-day workshop on remote sensing and water quality monitoring particularly on chlorophyll and turbidity parameters, The workshop was participated by Mr. Junser P. Magpantay, Instructor from the Department of Forestry and Environmental Science (DFES) of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) and Mr. Jhon Laurence B. Herrera, administrative assistant of Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade (SPRINT) Center.

 The highlights of the three-day workshop include image classification using QGIS software and Earth observation processing and analysis using the SNAP software. Also, the use of water quality multi-parameter equipment for the monitoring of water quality was introduced and demonstrated wherein fieldworks was conducted in nearby rivers located in Brgy. Pulo, Binambangan bridge and Kaytapos bridge, all located in the Municipality of Indang ( JLBHerrera) .

 A lecture on remote sensing and water quality monitoring during the three-day workshop

----- DOC | DOST-Cavite conducts orientation and training on STARBOOKS at CvSU – Main Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/27/dost-cavite-conducts-orientation-and-training-on-starbooks-at-cvsu-main-campus/ | 2021-07-27 -----
In support of the implementation of Department of Science and Technology – Science and Technology Information Institute's  (DOST-STII) Science and Technology Academic and Research-Based Openly Operated Kiosks or STARBOOKS, which contain hundreds and thousands of digitized science and technology resources in various formats (text and video/audio) set in a user's friendly interface, DOST- Provincial S&T Center (PSTC) Cavite conducted training on the use, operation, and maintenance of the system for the staff of the Cavite State University – Main Campus Library on 22 July.

 Mr. Laurence Angelo Ferre Bago of DOST-PSTC Cavite, served as a Resource Speaker on the said STARBOOKS Orientation and User's Hand's-on Training. He presented and introduced the system's operation, methods of accessing the contents of the program, and the reporting process. After the lecture, he encouraged the staff of the CvSU Main Library to experience hands-on operation. He advised the group to regularly coordinate with DOST and report the status of the use of STARBOOKS or any problems that they may encounter so that technical assistance will be provided to resolve the issues.

 Amidst the pandemic, DOST continuously deploys STARBOOKS to more than 22 sites or schools in Cavite. STARBOOKS is an offline science library-in-a-box, containing thousands of digital resources on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) that are easily retrievable. It serves as a reliable source of digital scientific and technological information in order to reduce the gap between information and learners.

 Source: https://www.facebook.com/DOSTCAV.GOV 

 Main Campus Library staff undergoing STARBOOKS orientation and training from DOST-PSTC Cavite

----- DOC | Registration Process for New Students First Semester A.Y. 2021-2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/22/registration-process-for-new-students-first-semester-ay-2021-2022/ | 2021-07-22 -----
REGISTRATION PROCESS FOR NEW STUDENTS 

 FIRST SEMESTER A.Y. 2021-2022 

 1.       Confirmed applicants will  receive an email containing the schedule  of submission of required documents. 

 2.       Submission of original documents will be at the CvSU Chapel (Bancod Road) on the scheduled date  ONLY . Parents/Guardians or any authorized person can make the said submission together with  photocopy of any valid ID of the applicant. Submission can also be thru LBC or another preferred courier. 

 REQUIRED ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS FOR NEW FIRST YEAR STUDENTS: 

 1.       FORM138 or Grade 12 Report Card 

 2.       Certification of Good Moral Character 

 REQUIRED ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS FOR TRANSFEREES/SECOND COURSER: 

 1.       Transfer Credentials consisting of Transcript of Records and Certificate of Eligibility to Transfer 

 2.       Certification of Good Moral Character  (for transferees only) 

 3.       NBI/Police Clearance  (for transferees only) 

 REQUIRED ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS FOR TEACHER CERTIFICATE PROGRAM (TCP): 

 1.       Transcript of Records 

 3.       Original documents will be placed in  SHORT BROWN ENVELOPE  using the following format: 

 

 4.       The Office of the University Registrar will process the registration of applicants with  complete requirements  ONLY . 

 5.       Students will receive an email containing the student portal credential: 

 STUDENT NUMBER and TEMPORARY PASSWORD 

 LINK – https://myportal.cvsu.edu.ph 

 6.       Using the student portal, students may check the schedule of classes and class section.  Virtual registration form  will show the assessment/details of fees as well as the  RA 10931 Scholarship or the Free Higher Education Act 2017. 

 7.       Registration is considered  VALIDATED  if it is 'stamped  “REGISTERED” . Check the student portal before the opening of classes on September 6, 2021, to make sure that registration is already validated. 

 

 Note: NOT included in RA 10931 or considered Paying Students are the following: 

 1.       Foreign Students 

 2.       Second Courser – or those who already finished a degree program, and 

 3.       Students who have already exceeded the number of years in their program.

----- DOC | Federated FA officers take oath | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/22/federated-fa-officers-take-oath/ | 2021-07-22 -----
The new set of officers of the CvSU Federated Faculty Association (FFA) was sworn into office during the University Academic Council Meeting on 21 July via Webex. The oath of office was virtually administered by Dr. Hernando D. Robles. The officers will serve the FFA from 2021 to 2023.

 President: Zannie I. Gamuyao (Bacoor City Campus)

 Vice President: Arlene L. Estrada (Trece Martires City Campus)

 Secretary: Mildred A. Sebastian (Tanza Campus)

 Treasurer: Jose Lerio V. Batula (Imus Campus)

 Auditor: Melody N. Plaza (Carmona Campus)

 Business Manager: Melita D. Hernandez (Rosario Campus)

 PRO: Jeffrey F. Papa (Naic Campus)

 As president of the FFA, Prof. Zannie Gamuyao will serve as Faculty Regent in the CvSU Board of Regents.

----- DOC | College of Nursing grads post 94.44% in July 2021 nursing licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/19/college-of-nursing-grads-post-9444-in-july-2021-nursing-licensure-exam/ | 2021-07-19 -----
Graduates from the College of Nursing posted 94.44% overall passing performance in the July 2021 Nurse Licensure Examination. The national passing rate is 64.65%.

 All but one of the successful examinees are first time takers. The new registered nurses are the following:

 
 Abutan, Keylene G.

 Aguillana, Vince Joseph M.

 Alisaca, Stephany R.

 Bucasan, Jona B.

 Escallar, Kate Lorainne E.

 Evangelista, Ciara Alexis P.

 Garcia, Erwin A.

 Maningas, Christopher John R.

 Miller, Alexandrea Spear C.

 Mojica, Irish Lyn F.

 Navarro, Miyari L.

 Ocfemia, Joanne G.

 Padernal, Rejean P.

 Rodrin, Roby Ahricka T.

 Rosialda, Fritzy Joy D.

 Trinidad, Aubry Denice S.

 
 According to the Professional Regulation Commission, registration for the issuance of Professional Identification Card and certificate of registration of the successful examinees will be done online.

----- DOC | CvSU launches agri-eco tourism park | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/19/cvsu-launches-agri-eco-tourism-park/ | 2021-07-19 -----
To showcase its research, extension, and business activities, the University launched its Agri-Eco Tourism Park (AETP) on 15 July.

 According to Dr. Hernando D. Robles, the AETP is CvSU's way to bring back the interest and appreciation of the people to agriculture by providing attractions, activities, services, amenities, and hands-on learning.

 During the launching program, Department of Tourism Secretary Bernadette Romulo – Puyat, in a video recorded message, congratulated CvSU for developing and promoting a farm tourism program that promotes sustainability, farming, and ecotourism not only for the benefit of the academic community but for all Caviteños. She also expressed her eagerness to personally visit the park.

 DOT Sec Berna Romulo Puyat 
 Also present during the launch were Cavite Provincial Administrator Alvin S. Mojica representing Governor Jonvic Remulla, Indang Municipal Mayor Perfecto V. Fidel, and Indang Tourism Officer Marianito Nuestro. Meanwhile, Commission on Higher Education Commissioner Lilian A. De Las Llagas was represented by CHED Region IV-A Director Amelia A. Biglete, whose message was read by Dr. Freddie Bulauan, Chief Administrative Officer of CHED IV-A. Likewise, CHED OIC Deputy Executive Director Atty. Lily Freida Macabangun – Milla sent a video recorded message for the event.

 At the lagoon. From left: Ma'am Jo Robles, Dr. Hernando Robles, Dr. Freddie Bulauan, Cavite Provincial Administrator Alvin Mojica, Indang Mayor Perfecto Fidel, Indang Tourism Officer Marianito Nuestro, Dr. Camilo A. Polonga, Dr. Julio Alava, Ms. Bhaby Alava, Dr. Ma. Agnes Nuestro, and Dr. Leyma Cero. 
 After the short opening program, guests and CvSU officials went on a simulation tour of the park which was capped by a sumptuous lunch at Hostel Tropicana.

 The different tour packages offered in the park includes something to see, something to experience, something to learn, and something to buy. The components of the park are the following: Hagdan ng Kasaysayan, Tulay ng Karunungan, CvSU Bee Program, Kapihan sa Kubo, villas, technology demonstration hub on coffee-based farming, dragon fruit farm, upland agriculture, ornamentals, native pigs, feathered animals, National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC), Central Experiment Station, Garden of Culinary Herbs, Aromatics and Medicinals (CHARMS), Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade Center (SPRINT), University Museum, and lagoon. The Technology Innovation Hub features products from the different Cavite Farmers Information Technology Services (FITS) Centers and other partners.

 A few days before the launching, a blessing ceremony was held for the park, led by Fr. Jeody Arias.

 In the future, it is hoped that more interventions will be developed to help the stakeholders, more products and services will be featured including those of the community partners, and more exciting activities will be provided for the young and the young at hearts in the agri-eco tourism park.

 For inquiries and bookings, the Agri-Eco Tourism Park may be reached through email: agri-ecopark@cvsu.edu.ph or landline: (046) 482 4385.

----- DOC | CvSU cohosts 11th NARSUC national convention and webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/15/cvsu-cohosts-11th-narsuc-national-convention-and-webinar/ | 2021-07-15 -----
The National Association of Registrars of State Universities and Colleges, Inc. (NARSUC) held their 11 th National Convention and Webinar Series 4, with the theme “e-Kumustahan ng mga ka-NARSUC sa Dalawang Dekada: An Online Webinar Series for Registrars amid Pandemic”, on 14 July 2021 in cooperation with Cavite State University.

 Resource persons during the event include Commission on Higher Education – National Capital Region Director Virginia Akiate; CHED OIC Deputy Executive Director Atty. Lily Freida Macabangun – Milla; and Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC) President Dr. Tirso A. Ronquillo.  The said speakers talked about CHED updates, internationalization, and PASUC updates, respectively.

 CvSU Registrar Ms. Edwina O. Roderos sits as Secretary of NARSUC, Inc.

----- DOC | ASCOT benchmarks CvSU's IGP and GAD programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/15/ascot-benchmarks-cvsus-igp-and-gad-programs/ | 2021-07-15 -----
Representatives from Aurora State College of Technology (ASCOT), particularly from the Public Information, Publication and Data Protection Office (PIPDPO) and Gender and Development Office, visited the Main Campus on 13 July 2021.

 The purpose of the visit was to benchmark on the University's best practices in managing the printing office and other income-generating projects under the business affairs, and in mainstreaming gender and development.

 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Dir. Lina C. Abogadie of the Business Affairs, Dr. Susan G. Tan together with Ms. Raecel Estebat, of the GAD Resource Center entertained the questions from the visitors.

 Visitors from ASCOT include Ms. Raiza Kate L. Ico and Diana Rose P. De Mesa from PIPDPO, Ms. Malou C. Angara, Mr. Jeffrey G. Susada, Ms. Jomer B. Mangawang, and Ms. Yasmin Grace D. Baltazar from GAD.

----- DOC | Indang Sangguniang Bayan expresses full support to CvSU community hospital | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/13/indang-sangguniang-bayan-expresses-full-support-to-cvsu-community-hospital/ | 2021-07-13 -----
Dr. Hernando D. Robles presented the proposal for the establishment and operationalization of a Level 1 Community Hospital to the Sangguniang Bayan (SB) during their 28th Regular Session on 12 July 2021.

 On behalf of the Sangguniang Bayan, Hon. Restituto Vejerano expressed gratitude to Dr. Robles and CvSU for the initiative and vowed their fullest support. He also requested the SB Secretary that the Resolution of Support on the proposal be part of the agenda at their next meeting. Meanwhile, Hon. Robinson Bernarte said that Indangeños have long hoped for a health care institution in the locality. Hon. John Mark Cayao added that this project, and the establishment of the College of Medicine, will be very beneficial to a lot of people.

 

 

 Together with Dr. Robles in the meeting are Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro (VP, Academic Affairs), Dr. Romeo M. Sanchez (Director, Health Services), Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo (Dean, College of Nursing), and Ms. Lolita G. Herrera (Director, Finance).

 

 After the presentation to the Sangguniang Bayan officers, the group of Dr. Robles made a courtesy call to the Municipal Mayor, Hon. Perfecto V. Fidel.

----- DOC | Webinar on Gender Issues in Safety and Health at the Workplace | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/06/webinar-on-gender-issues-in-safety-and-health-at-the-workplace/ | 2021-07-06 -----
The Cavite State University Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) conducted a Webinar on Gender Issues in Safety and Health at the Workplace on April 15, 2021 from 8:00-12:00 noon via Fb Live. This activity aimed to provide an introduction into some of the key issues pertaining to women at work and describe the components of a health and safety program.

 

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, in his opening remarks, mentioned that this activity is in support of the observance of the Annual World Day of Safety and Health at Work. A celebration which promotes the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases globally. He also stated that employees are the most valuable assets of the university, therefore, they should be accorded with all the features of a safe work environment.

 Topics discussed during the webinar were Risks and Trends in the Safety and Health of Women by Mr. Ronal Espera Araño, Faculty Member, CEIT; Reproductive Health Hazards among Women Workers by Ms. Maureen Go Buclatin-Martinez, Occupational Health Nurse, SANNO Philippines Manufacturing Corporation; Occupational Hazards among Women Workers by Mr. Neil Calosa Escañan, Occupational Safety and Health Practitioner, Safety Officer III; and Working Conditions: Protection of Women Employees by Ms. Maria Catherine P. Feria.

 

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Director, GADRC in her closing remarks emphasized that male and female should complement one another, no one should be regarded as the weaker sex and that everyone should work together to ensure a safe work environment since safety is everyone's concern.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts orientation on Magna Carta for disabled persons | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/06/gadrc-conducts-orientation-on-magna-carta-for-disabled-persons/ | 2021-07-06 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center conducted an Orientation on Republic Act 7277, otherwise known as the Magna Carta for Disabled Persons via zoom teleconferencing among the officers and members of Indang Association of Person's with Disability, Inc on April 16, 2021. The webinar aims to inform the participants of their rights and privileges as persons with disability.

 Ms. Marie Shiela A. Haloc, RSW, Disability Affairs Officer IV, Cavite Provincial Disability Affairs Office served as the resource speaker for Republic Act 7277. Ms. Haloc first explained some of the disability barriers for the PWD and how they can overcome these disability barriers. Afterwards, Ms. Haloc proceeded to the main topic, which is the Magna Carta or Disabled Persons, the main focus of her presentation is the Right and Privileges of a person with disability when it comes to employment, education, health, auxiliary social services, telecommunications, accessibility, social and political rights. The last topic she explained pertains to the special discounts and privileges enjoyed by a person with disability.

 In addition, she also gave a brief discussion on some laws that amended RA 7277, these laws are the RA 9442 or the Provision of Special Discounts and Privileges to PWD's, RA 10524 or the act Expanding the Positions Reserved for Persons with Disability, RA 10070 or Establishing Institutional Mechanism to Ensure the Implementation of Programs and Services for Persons With Disabilities In Every Province, City and Municipality, RA 10754 or the Act Expanding The Benefits And Privileges Of Persons With Disability (PWD), and lastly the RA 11228 or the Act Providing for the Mandatory PhilHealth Coverage for all Persons With Disability (PWDs).

 At the end of her presentation, some of the participants raised questions like if they can send a letter to an establishment and ask them to comply with the accessibility code. They also asked if it would be possible for them to apply the incentives for private corporation to the government. (JRD Emelo)

----- DOC | GADRC sponsors stress management webinar IAPWDI | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/07/06/gadrc-sponsors-stress-management-webinar-iapwdi/ | 2021-07-06 -----
The  Cavite State University Gender and Development Resource Center sponsored a  Webinar on Stress Management among the officers and members of the Indang Association of Person's with Disability, Inc (IAPWDI)on March 12, 2021 via Zoom.

 Dr. Paulito Hilario, a faculty member and a licensed guidance counselor from the College of Arts and Sciences, CvSU served as the Resource Speaker for Stress Management. Dr. Hilario focused his discussion on how to deal with stress, how to self-care when handling depression due to COVID-19, physical self-care, and how to do some mindful exercises while in the house in order to keep calm.

 Afterwards, some of the participants asked Dr. Hilario how they could get in touch with him if ever they feel the need to consult with him. Dr. Hilario gladly informed them that they have an online counseling in Facebook and all they have to do is search for it and book an appointment. Dr. Hilario further suggested that they have to be created to remain sane. He gave an example of setting up a picnic in their back yard just to be out of the house and be with their family members. (JRDEmelo)

----- DOC | GADRC conducts ToT on community-based orientation on anti-trafficking | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/07/gadrc-conducts-tot-on-community-based-orientation-on-anti-trafficking/ | 2021-06-07 -----
To capacitate the GAD coordinators, extension coordinators, and other faculty members of the different colleges/campuses/units of the University, a three-day training of trainers (ToT) in conducting awareness campaign against human trafficking in their respective communities is being held, from 24-26 May, via Zoom.

 The ToT covers the following topics:

 
 Domestic and International Situationer on Human Trafficking

 Salient Features of Republic Act 9208 as amended by Republic Act 10364, or the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act, and other laws against illegal recruitment, mail-order spouse scheme, and online sexual exploitation of children (OSEC)

 Forms of Trafficking: Labor and Sex Trafficking

 Gender Sensitive and Victim-Friendly Handling of Human Trafficking Cases

 Ways to Help in Fighting Human Trafficking

 Community-Based Anti-Trafficking Advocacy Campaign

 
 Twenty-five faculty members from the different colleges/campuses/units are expected to benefit from the training and are expected to prepare a module design on community-based orientation on anti-trafficking and an action plan to ensure the implementation of the community-based anti-trafficking campaign.

 The said activity is part of the Memorandum of Agreement signed by CvSU and the Commission on Filipinos Overseas (CFO) wherein the latter shall support CvSU's GAD Resource Center Extension Program by implementing activities that will promote the campaign against gender-based violence such as human trafficking in the province of Cavite and within the region. (SGTan)

----- DOC | CvSU Main Campus releases college admission result for 1st Sem, 2021-2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/07/cvsu-main-campus-releases-college-admission-result-for-1st-sem-2021-2022/ | 2021-06-07 -----
The Main Campus released on June 1, the result of the college admission for First Semester, 2021-2022. Out of 32,236 applicants who registered online, only 6,240 applicants can be admitted due to limited capacity.

 To view the result, applicants must log on to https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ . Qualified applicants should confirm their slot beginning June 1 until June 30, 2021. Otherwise, it will mean forfeiture of the admission application. Registration process that will start on 19 July 2021.

 Below is the procedure for confirmation/reapplication released by the Office of Student Affairs and Services:

 PROCEDURE FOR CONFIRMATION OF SLOT 

 
 Using your registered email account, log-in to the Online Student Admission System – https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/

 Access the MENU BAR, then ADMISSION RESULT section. Update your personal information.

 Read the Notice of Admission (NOA) stating the course that you are qualified to enroll in.

 Answer the survey form for internet connectivity and ICT readiness.

 Click the “CONFIRM” button to confirm slot.

 For those applicants of BS Hospitality Management, BS Tourism Management, BS Medical Technology, BS Nursing and Diploma in Midwifery you are subject for College Interview. Wait for the announcement of the respective Colleges on how they will inform/contact you for interview. After you passed the college interview – that is the time that you have to confirm your slot in the online admission system.

 
 Reminders after confirming the slot: 

 
 Physical/Medical examination procedure is temporarily suspended. Qualified applicants who have already undergone the medical process, please keep your medical results and wait for further announcements.

 Qualified applicants who have already confirmed their slot will only need to wait for an email from the Office of the University Registrar. The registration process will start on July 19, 2021 . No further action from the applicant is needed upon confirmation of the slot, unless instructed by OSAS or the University Registrar.

 After the Office of the University Registrar has registered the applicant, an email containing the confirmation and student number along with a TEMPORARY student portal password will be sent to the applicant. The University Registrar will ask for the complete original requirements of the confirmed applicants

 
 REAPPLICATION 

 There are programs/courses that are still open for re-application. The list of applicants (by control number) who are qualified to reapply on certain programs/courses can be viewed here: https://tinyurl.com/wvk3m6r7 

 Re-application is until June 15 and is on a first-come, first served basis .  Applicant shall choose one program/course only.  Those interested shall fill-out this form –  https://forms.gle/LoW2MzK9RjZyuU278 

 Reminders for Reapplication: 

 
 Only those who submitted their application during the application period (March 1 – April 30) can reapply for the available program/course.

 The applicant can only choose one course for reapplication and it must be aligned with the strand

 After June 15, those who will qualify will be notified through their email address for further instruction.

 
 TRANSFEREES, SECOND COURSERS, AND TCP APPLICANTS 

 Please wait for the announcement about the result of your evaluation which will be released tentatively on June 30, 2021.

 For inquiries, please send an email to admission@cvsu.edu.ph .

----- DOC | CEd-TED conducts virtual student annual general assembly | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/07/ced-ted-conducts-virtual-student-annual-general-assembly/ | 2021-06-07 -----
Connections and relationships have been quite challenging to maintain in this pandemic, more especially to educational institutions that highlights the importance of teacher-student interaction to optimize the best potential of learning.

 The idea of connecting and opening networks to encourage growth, development, understanding, and success towards their goals was the main focus of this year's Education Circle general assembly, with the theme “OPENCAM: Opening Educational Networks and Connections Amidst PandeMic”.

 

 Education Circle held their annual General Assembly for all Teacher Education students or KapaTEDs, virtually, last May. Activities for the much-awaited event included TikTok Dress Up Challenge, Slogan and Poster Making Contest, and the TED Quiz Bee. TED students showcased their best skills in art, video visualization, professional education courses, and such, which was the main goal of the activities.

 Also, through these events, the students were able to reconnect and witness the talents of their KapaTEDs.

 To wrap up the three-week-long series of events, the Education Circle held a webinar for all TED students with the same theme on 09 May 2021, via exclusive Facebook Group Live. The talk was put into great light with the expertise of the invited resource speaker, Dr. Loredel Gecalao, Principal II of San Antonio Elementary School, DepEd Schools Division of Laguna.

 

 Students gained a lot of important information on how teachers and students can maximize the connection they have to materialize the plans in this new normal learning set up. The program ended by awarding certificates to all winners of the events. ( VPdelaRea & JRFFabregar)

----- DOC | CvSU-Imus conducts PREP career talk | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/07/cvsu-imus-conducts-prep-career-talk/ | 2021-06-07 -----
Aimed at eliminating barriers in employment and digital divide amidst pandemic, the Department of Entrepreneurship of CvSU – Imus Campus successfully spearheaded the “ PREP ( P reparation for R elevant E mployment P rospecting) Career Talk,” together with the Cavite Young Leader for Entrepreneurship (CYLE), an online skills enhancement training for BS Entrepreneurship students held on 28 May 2021 via Zoom. 

 

 

 Topics discussed during the webinar include writing an effective cover letter, refining a resume, navigating job search, and preparing for virtual job interviews.  Key takeaways from the event provided graduating students the necessary information and skills to facilitate possible internship and employment opportunities.

 The event was in partnership with the Asia Foundation's Go Digital ASEAN, which advocates digital skills training initiative, implemented across all ten ASEAN member states, including the Philippines. The program equips jobseekers, and micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with the tools and proficiencies necessary to access and participate in the digital arena to expand economic opportunity across the ASEAN Member States and minimize the negative impact of the Covid-19 crisis. 

   

 The Go Digital ASEAN-Philippines training team was headed by Consultant Mr. Jowil Plecerda and Program Lead Mr. Patrick Bolaños, with the best line-up of prominent HR practitioners from the industry. The senior trainers, namely Ms. Joy Penecilla, Ms. Reanne Gamboa, and Ms. Lorna Bondoc, graciously shared their expertise and handled the most interactive open forum with the most suitable answers to the frequently asked questions. Further exchange of corporate experiences among the resource speakers highlighted best practices in hiring the perfect match for the job while accentuating employable skills. (LAMarzan/RIGarcia/LVGOcampo)

----- DOC | Congratulations, Doc Melbourne | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/01/congratulations-doc-melbourne/ | 2021-06-01 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Announcement of Vacant Plantilla Positions 
 CvSU-Imus conducts PREP career talk

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel in May 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/30/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-may-2021/ | 2021-05-30 -----
Announcements 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Newly Appointed University Personnel on May 2021 
 Announcement of Vacant Plantilla Positions

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on May 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/26/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-may-2021/ | 2021-05-26 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 GADRC conducts ToT on community-based orientation on anti-trafficking 
 Newly Appointed University Personnel in May 2021

----- DOC | Imus Campus faculty research published in Scopus-indexed journal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/24/imus-campus-faculty-research-published-in-scopus-indexed-journal/ | 2021-05-24 -----
The research paper presented by Drs. Alfe M. Solina and Liane Vina G. Ocampo of Imus Campus in a parallel session at the Asia-Pacific Consortium of Educators and Researchers (APCoRE) International Virtual Conference on 2-4 December 2020 was accepted and published in a Scopus-indexed journal, Psychology and Education (2021) 58(5), ISSN 1553-6939. 

 Around 800 research papers have been evaluated for presentation during the conference. Among the speakers in the said conference were from Burapha University in Thailand, Nottingham University in Malaysia, Universiti Teknikal Malaysia Melaka, Taylor & Francis, USA, New York University, USA, and many others. APCoRE is an international member-based organization of topnotch researchers, scientists and educators who are committed and focused on the development of research, knowledge, and academic values in the Asia Pacific Region. ( AMSolina/LVOcampo )

----- DOC | Job Fair 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/12/job-fair-2021/ | 2021-05-12 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 CvSU-generated technologies featured in DOST's StARRT 
 Repainting of Building at CvSU Carmona Campus

----- DOC | CvSU-generated technologies featured in DOST's StARRT | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/11/cvsu-generated-technologies-featured-in-dosts-starrt/ | 2021-05-11 -----
Two technologies from Cavite State University were featured in the technologies pitched in during the virtual culminating activity for DOST'S Strategy to Accelerate and Revitalize Technology Transfer (StARTT) in CALABARZON region, also known as the Technology Transfer Day held on 7 May 2021.

 From the 25 initially evaluated technologies, two from CvSU made it to the final 12 technologies, namely, “ASMA Low-Cost Smoking Technology” by Engr. Vennus Florence Vicedo and Engr. Gee Jay C. Bartolome (CvSU-Rosario Campus) and “Specialty Coffee Blends” by Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Engr. Rosalie A. Pelle and Engr. Aeron R. Mojica (CvSU-Main Campus).

 

 According to DOST CALABARZON, the culminating activity aims to assist the technology generators, researchers, and innovators of Research and Development Institutes (RDIs) and academe in the region to showcase and commercialize their homegrown technologies for the benefit of the society and local industries.

 The event also recognized six technologies from two RDIs and two State Universities and Colleges in CALABARZON with commercialized technologies that passed thru the evaluation of the Fairness Opinion Board. Cavite State University was acknowledged for having been issued a Certificate of Fairness Opinion on the proposed transaction to license the technology “Production of Kaong Brown Sugar” of CvSU as Licensor to Magallanes Women's Club Multi-purpose Cooperative (MAWCO) as Producer and Distributor/Licensee. The other recognized institutions were University of the Philippines Los Baños, DOST – Forest Products Research and Development Institute, and DOST – Industrial Technology Development Institute.

----- DOC | CEd faculty research papers published in Scopus indexed journal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/11/ced-faculty-research-papers-published-in-scopus-indexed-journal/ | 2021-05-11 -----
The research papers of Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar and Dr. Jovan B. Alitagtag, faculty members of Teacher Education in the College of Education had been published in the journal Psychology and Education, one of the Scopus indexed journal affiliates of Asia-Pacific Consortium of Researchers and Educators. The articles were released on May 05, 2021 under Vol. 58 No. 5 (2021) with ISSN 1552 – 6939 at the psychologyandeducation.net – the official website of the journal Psychology and Education. 

   

 Prior to the publication in the Psychology and Education Journal, the papers of Dr. Fabregar entitled “ Organizational Climate in Public High Schools in the Province of Laguna and Lifelong Service of Junior High School Teachers ” and Dr. Alitagtag entitled “ Emotional Intelligence and Leadership Effectiveness of Public Junior High School Heads in the Province of Laguna ” have been presented in the APCoRE 2020 International Virtual Conference held on 2-4 December 2020 with the theme “Embracing Change, Forging Ahead”. The said papers passed the evaluation of the reviewers/referees in terms of scope and relevance. 

   

 Abstract of the papers can be accessed here: 

 http://psychologyandeducation.net/pae/index.php/pae/article/view/5144 

 http://psychologyandeducation.net/pae/index.php/pae/article/view/5151 

   

 Drs. Fabregar and Alitagtag are looking forward that this will be the first of their many publications in Scopus indexed journals. ( JBAlitagtag)

----- DOC | CAS operationalizes approved Arts Division restructuring | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/05/03/cas-operationalizes-approved-arts-division-restructuring/ | 2021-05-03 -----
Upon the approval of the University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) now operationalizes its proposal to restructure its Liberal Arts Division. CAS Dean Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan confirmed the approval thru her Office Memorandum No. 07, S. 2021 dated 29 April 2021, “Restructuring of the Arts Division of CAS.” With this new set-up, the College is now composed of five departments, namely: Department of Biological Sciences, Department of Communication, Department of Humanities, Department of Physical Sciences, and Department of Social Sciences.   

   

 A three-fold proposal to restructure the Liberal Arts Division, to revise its College Goals and Department Objectives, and to include the  Sentro ng Pasalita at Pampook na Kasaysayan  or the Oral and Local History Center in the College's Organizational Structure was submitted and approved by the CAS Academic Council, Council of Academic Affairs Heads, University Administrative Council consecutively. The establishment of the  Sentro ng Pasalita at Pampook na Kasaysayan  was approved earlier by the Office of the University President.  

   

 Among the legal bases and references for this restructuring are the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) CMO No. 44, S1997: Policies and Standards for Humanities, Social Sciences, and Communication Education, Article 2, Section 2, which states that courses in the Liberal Arts are generally classified into three areas, namely: Humanities (Languages, Literature, Philosophy, Arts and Music); Social Sciences (History, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, Anthropology, and Economics); and Communication (Broadcasting, Journalism, and Communication Arts); CHED Memorandum Order No. 20, Series of 2013: General Education Curriculum: Holistic Understandings, Individual and Civic Competencies; and J. Kagan's 2009 article  The three cultures: Natural sciences, social sciences, and the humanities in the 21st century . 

   

 Alongside restructuring the arts division, the existing college goals were also revised with the inclusion of the primary function of the College of offering general education courses and reflecting the instruction, research, extension, and resource generation functions, as well as the revision of department objectives. Truly, CAS, being the Carriers of Truth, Advocates of Excellence, and Stewards of Service continuously commits to the vision and mission of the University.

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on April 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/04/30/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-april-2021/ | 2021-04-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Job Hiring for College of Medicine 
 CAS operationalizes approved Arts Division restructuring

----- DOC | CEd profs attend SEAMEO Congress 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/04/30/ced-profs-attend-seameo-congress-2021/ | 2021-04-30 -----
Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar, and Dr. Jovan B. Alitagtag from the College of Education represented Cavite State University in the SEAMEO Congress 2021 held virtually on 28-29 April with the theme “Transforming Southeast Asian Education, Science and Culture in the Digital Age”.

 The team, headed by Dr. Crizaldo, presented their research output on Flexible Learning in the New Normal during the session on Research on Digital Learning.

 According to their website, SEAMEO Congress 2021 serves as a platform for the policymakers, teachers, researchers, and educators to exchange effective policy, fruitful teaching experience and share new learning paradigms and practices in the digital age. It was attended by administrators, educators, and researchers from the eleven (11) SEAMEO Member Countries.

----- DOC | Balinado wins first prize in BioTaktik contest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/04/30/balinado-wins-first-prize-in-biotaktik-contest/ | 2021-04-30 -----
Beating 11 other finalists with his STARRT approach, Mr. Lloyd O. Balinado, a faculty member from College of Arts and Sciences – Department of Biological Sciences, won first prize in the first-ever BioTakTik Contest of BIOTA-Philippines, Inc – a national organization of biology teachers. BioTakTik aims to showcase different online strategies and best practices in teaching biology that may be adapted by biology teachers nationwide.

 Mr. Balinado shared his online strategy dubbed as STARRRT approach that he uses in his classes, which includes 7 tactics that can support effective teaching of biology subjects:

 S-Screencast T-Think-Talk A-App Store R-Reel Time R-READy to Learn R-Recall Questions T-Task Zone. According to him, “this simple approach keeps my students well guided, supports all types of learners, and ensures learning even beyond the synchronous class sessions.”

 

 He even made an evaluation form and was able to get good feedbacks from his students in terms of appropriateness with the subject, quality of delivery, and student satisfaction.

 Here are some of his students' feedback on the STARRRT approach:

 On S creencast:

 “ Sa gaya kong working student na di nakakaattend sa mismong klase super pabor po ako dito. At may time pa ako ibalik yung bagay na di ko naintindihan .”

 “The screencast lectures are very efficient and time friendly because we can watch it anytime we can.”

 On T hink-Talk:

 “Think talk challenges our mind and helped me to better understand or to be a critical thinker in every situation.”

 “It is really helpful and it also gives a chance for us to interact like in a normal f2f class setting.” “It tickles my mind every time there's a think-talk and let me explore more about the topic.”

 On A pp Store:

 “It is a great way of applying the concepts in the real setting. This approach helps me to reinforce the acquired theories and concepts through specific examples and real-world problems.”

 “ Nabibigyan kami ng idea sa isang topic dahil sa examples na binibigay, at mas nabibigyang linaw yung concept dahil dito .”

 On R eel Time:

 “Reel time helped me to gain more knowledge through watching videos. It helps us to have a better understanding and application of the lesson.”

 “Reel time contributes more knowledge and it fills the curiousity of students on a particular topic.”

 “This very important and helpful po for better understanding the lesson kasi some students like me mas natututo po through visual perspective (pictures, documentary, or animation ) lalo na po kung process po ang pinag-uusapan .”

 On R EADy to Learn:

 “The scientific journals and articles that have been provided through “READy to learn” section made the concepts much clearer and supply additional information on the topic.”

 “This somewhat prepares me for research, since we are biologists. This is a great practice in preparation for our higher years when we will make our thesis.”

 On R ecall Questions: “One of my favorite parts wherein you can create a reviewer based from the questions.”

 “This approach really tests my memorization, comprehension, and process-based data organization.”

 “This is what I love most, it helps me evaluate on which parts I am having trouble grasping.”

 On T ask Zone:

 “This gives us the opportunity to apply our knowledge on an output-based performance. It also utilizes our critical thinking, teamwork, and even creativity.”

 “The tasks given were a test of concept understanding and creativity. This approach like in our biotechnology course helps me to integrate the theoretical knowledge into a real-world scenario.”

 The BioTakTik competition took place during the virtual 55 th BIOTA National Convention and Scientific Sessions held on 22-24 April.

----- DOC | Main Campus FA officers take oath | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/04/30/main-campus-fa-officers-take-oath/ | 2021-04-30 -----
The new set of officers of the CvSU Faculty Association, Inc. – Main Campus took their oath, virtually, on 13 April. Dr. Hernando D. Robles led the oath taking.

 During the ceremony, Dr. Robles urged the new set of FA Officers to work hand in hand with the Administration, particularly on providing solutions to the issues and concerns of the faculty.

 On behalf of the officers, FA President Marlon Pereña expressed their strong commitment to conduct and support activities that will promote the welfare of all faculty members in the Main Campus.

 The CvSU-FA Main Campus Officers who will serve until 2023 are:

 President: Marlon R. Perena

 Vice President: Jocelyn A. Legaspi

 Secretary: Jovan B. Alitagtag

 Treasurer: Janice E. Paiton

 Auditor: Jason D. Braga

 PRO: Garry M. Cahibaybayan

 Business Manager: Erlinda C. Eustaquio

 Witnesses during the oath taking were the four CvSU vice presidents – Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro (Academic Affairs), Dr. Camilo A. Polinga (Administrative and Support Services), Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac (Research and Extension), and Dr. Leyma L. Cero (Planning and Development). Also present were Engr. Gerry M. Castillo and Dr. Nelson J. Montialto of the Election Committee, Ms. Catherine J. Quiñones of the Presidential Management Coordinating Office, and Asst. Prof. Adora Joy T. Plete of the Public Affairs and Communications Office.

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on March 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/31/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-march-2021/ | 2021-03-31 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Newly Appointed University Personnel on March 2021 
 Main Campus FA officers take oath

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on March 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/30/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-march-2021/ | 2021-03-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Suspension of Classes 
 Newly Appointed University Personnel on March 2021

----- DOC | Suspension of Classes | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/29/suspension-of-classes/ | 2021-03-29 -----
In compliance with OP Memorandum No. PHDR-42-2021, classes in ALL LEVELS ARE SUSPENDED from March 29 – 31, 2021.

 All faculty members are advised to refrain from conduction synchronous classes and discouraged to assign asynchronous tasks to their students during the aforementioned period.

----- DOC | Observance of ECQ | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/28/observance-of-ecq/ | 2021-03-28 -----
Pursuant to IATF Resolution No. 106-A, the following will be observed in the University effective 29 March until 04 April 2021:

 
 Only 10% of the workforce who are considered essential workers of the University shall be required to report for work.

 All permanent, casual and job order utility workers shall be on skeleton force on alternate basis during the period

 Personnel assigned in animal and crop production shall ensure that plants and animals are tended as required.

 Finance staff shall be on skeleton work and work from home arrangement and ensure that all salaries and other financial claims are processed before 31 March 2021.

 All office heads are advised to utilize Work from Home arrangement for the operation of their respective units and ensure that services are still provided to all stakeholders online, if applicable.

 All ECQ health and safety protocols and guidelines shall apply, including the claim of hazard pay for skeleton work force.

 
 Source: OM PHDR-42-2021

----- DOC | Notice of Search for Two Private Sector Representatives | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/23/notice-of-search-for-two-private-sector-representatives/ | 2021-03-23 -----
The Board of Regents of Cavite State University (CvSU) announces that the search for two (2) Private Sector Representatives is now open. Nominees must possess the following minimum qualifications:

 
 Must be a prominent Filipino citizen residing in the Philippines;

 Must be at least forty (40) years old;

 Must be a person of unquestioned integrity and probity and must not have been convicted of any administrative offense or crime;

 Must be successful in his/her profession or chosen field;

 Must be from the industry, business, or profession that can contribute to the pursuit of the mandate of CvSU;

 Must have at least three (3) years proven experience in a managerial position or corporate governance;

 Must have solid contribution to the community and/or country;

 Must not be connected with CvSU in any manner for two years prior to the nomination;

 Must not be connected with a private HEI in any manner;

 Must have an extensive record of employment, business, expertise, and connection with the private sector. If the nominee previously worked in any capacity with a government entity or was a consultant in any government undertaking or whatever nature, the proportion of the time the nominee served in government should not exceed one-fourth of the entire time served in the private sector;

 Must not in any way be presently employed or appointed to any position in any government agency or entity (national, local, or government-owned or controlled corporation), be it on a full-time or part-time basis, at the time of nomination; and

 Must explicitly manifest availability of time and commitment to the service of CvSU.

 
 
 Nominees must submit the following documentary requirements:

 
 Duly accomplished and notarized nomination form;

 Supporting documents:

 
 
 
 Curriculum Vitae of nominee with duly certified documents in support of data specified therein (e.g., academic records; past and current employment/ service records; awards received, SEC Registration of companies owned by nominee; etc.)

 Certification that nominee is not connected with CvSU;

 Certification that nominee is not currently employed in any government agency/office;

 Original NBI clearance; and

 Birth certificate from PSA

 
 
 
 Nominee's Conforme — Nominees should indicate their acceptance of the nomination by signing their conforme on the designated portion of the notarized nomination form.

 
 
 Nominators shall submit their nominations and all supporting documents to the Office of the CvSU Board Secretary, Secretariat of the Search Committee , located at Administration Building, Cavite State University, Don Severino de las Alas Campus, Indang, Cavite , not later than April 16, 2021, at 5 o'clock in the afternoon . The Search Committee shall only consider nominations with complete supporting documents.

 Link for the nomination form.

----- DOC | CvSU supports the National Awareness Week for the Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/14/cvsu-supports-the-national-awareness-week-for-the-prevention-of-child-sexual-abuse-and-exploitation/ | 2021-03-14 -----
In support of the Child Sexual Abuse Awareness Week, Cavite State University conducted a webinar entitled “We are the Solution: A Webinar on Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation” held on 25 February via FB Live. The activity was spearheaded by the Gender and Development Resource Center together with the College of Arts and Sciences, College of Education and College of Criminal Justice. The activity aims to raise the awareness of the public on the extent and magnitude of the problem, as well as the adverse consequences on the personality of the child, his/her family, and the society at large.

 

 During the opening program,  Ms. Sharon Mojica-Isip, Dean of the Office of Student Affairs and Services commended the efforts of the people behind the webinar. She encouraged the audience to apply all the learnings they will gain in their respective communities.

 Atty. Jeffrey B. Bajita, a faculty member of the College of Criminal Justice discussed the Salient Features of RA 7610 “Special Protection on Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discriminate Act”. Topics included in his discussion were:  a. Who are Children; b. What is Child Abuse; What are Child Prostitution and Other Sexual Abuse; and When is there Attempt to Commit Child Prostitution. He ended his discussion with a bible verse, that “Children are a gift from the Lord; they are a reward from him. He emphasized that children should be protected or free from any form of abuse and discrimination” Psalm 12:3.

 

 The next speaker, Ms. Darylyvy Ricafort-Avila, RSW, faculty member of the College of Arts and Sciences, explained the Protocol for Case Management of Child Victims of Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation. She further explained the flowchart for the case management.

 The last speaker was Atty. Rhina May Sayarot-Elicano, of the City Schools Division, Dasmariñas City, Cavite was invited by the College of Education. Her topic centered on the Teachers' Awareness and School's Responsiveness to the Child Protection Policy. She thoroughly explained the important roles that the school administration together with the teachers play in addressing the needs of abused/neglected/exploited children. She also presented different programs and activities relative to child protection and ways to prevent the commission of acts of child abuse in the school.

 

 The activity was attended by 1,314 female and 548 male students, faculty members, non-academic employees, and external clients from different agencies.

----- DOC | GADRC conducts strategic planning | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/14/gadrc-conducts-strategic-planning/ | 2021-03-14 -----
Dr. Susan G. Tan, new GADRC director, sat down with the center's staff on 28 January to discuss plans, activities, and budget for the year.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, In-Charge of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation presented the GAD plan and budget of the university. She further discussed the list of activities to be conducted for this year.

 A GAD-related national theme was identified for each month of the year and activities were plotted out. The respective college/campus that can be tapped as partners in conducting the said activities were also identified.

 The group also agreed that the Center's regular monthly meeting will be every last Thursday of the month while the GAD Technical Working Group meeting will be every last month of every quarter.

----- DOC | CvSU signs MOU with University of Central Missouri | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/03/cvsu-signs-mou-with-university-of-central-missouri/ | 2021-03-03 -----
In its to pursuit to boost the internationalization of its program offerings, Cavite State University entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Educational Cooperation with the University of Central Missouri (UCM). The actual signing of the MOU by Dr. Philip Bridgmon, Provost and Chief Learning Officer of UCM, happened on 18 February while the ceremonial virtual MOU signing of the document was on 03 March 2021.

 According to CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, the partnership envisions to provide educational opportunities between the two institutions on undergraduate and graduate degree-seeking programs; short- and long-term faculty exchange; collaborative research and discovery learning; and teaching and other mutually-agreed upon educational research. UCM agreed to offer a non-resident scholarship to degree-seeking applicants from CvSU who will be able fulfill the admission requirements.

 During the brief virtual program, Atty. Lily Freida M. Milla, Director of CHED – International Affairs Staff Office, asserted that this partnership would enrich the programs of each institution with diversity and quality standards and also further empowered CvSU to continue enhancing their activities and programs despite the pandemic.

 Meanwhile, US Cultural Affairs Officer to the Philippines Matthew Keener acknowledged CvSU as “a wonderful partner of Education USA Philippines dating few years back, proactively seeking out partnerships and taking advantage of the downtime and the new virtual interaction world to deepen partnerships, continue to collaborate, and find ways to create educational opportunities”. He also reiterated EdUSA Philippines' utmost support to all other institutions that would like to explore educational linkages with universities in the United States.

 The University of Central Missouri located in Warrensburg, Missouri is known for its flexible environment, convenient schedule, and online courses and programs that provide high-quality instruction in a supportive community of learning. It has also been cited by The Princeton Review as best college in the Midwestern Region for 15 consecutive years. UCM's International Recruitment Officer, Ruben Ricardo Month shared that this new chapter between institutions is a great opportunity to celebrate as it coincides with the 150 th anniversary of UCM.

----- DOC | Sereno graces CAS' founding anniversary | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/03/03/sereno-graces-cas-founding-anniversary/ | 2021-03-03 -----
The College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) marked its 23 rd founding anniversary with a simple virtual celebration attended by students, faculty, and staff of the College, and some members of the administrative council, on 11 February.

 Themed “ C ontinuing A dvocacy and S ervice through C ommunication, A daptability, and RES iliency amidst Disruptions ( CAS CARES 2021 )”, the one-day event kicked off with a program, with former chief justice of the supreme court, Hon. Maria Lourdes Aranal Sereno as keynote speaker.

 Sereno, who was introduced by the dean of CAS, Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, was warmly welcomed by the attendees. In her speech, she stressed that despite the disruptions, especially the major ones like natural and man-made calamities, there are still opportunities awaiting to achieve long-term change.  According to her, we can continue to serve in times of disruption by taking into consideration the mandate of CvSU as a state-funded higher education institute, the mandate of every teacher of young people, and the mandate of the Filipino youth. “We cannot navigate 'disruptions' without a clear view or dream of the future. Disruptions can force us to change for the better, yet we must also minimize disruptions”, she added. She particularly addressed the CvSU youth to imagine the nation, the Cavite, and the communities they want in the future. “If we have the fullness God promises, that is very much the life the Filipino youth can have – it is the most blessed and deeply peaceful life we can have – where deep inner prosperity is assured”, she concluded.

 A recipient of 'The Outstanding Women in Nation's Service award', Sereno is also the founder of Bawat Isa Mahalaga and currently the President of Accesslaw, Inc. – a law firm that provided the first annotated electronic research system in Philippine law.

 Also present during the celebration was Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, vice-president for academic affairs, who delivered the inspirational message on behalf of the university president, Dr. Hernando D. Robles.

 The afternoon activity focused on strategic planning workshop aimed at crafting the next five year-development programs in instruction, research, extension, and production, which was participated in by students and faculty members. The CAS dean, Dr. Ilagan, presented the University's Strategic Plan and was immediately followed by breakout sessions. The day ended with presentations of outputs by the four departments. (ARCSolis)

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on February 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/28/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-february-2021/ | 2021-02-28 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Newly Appointed University Personnel on February 2021 
 Sereno graces CAS' founding anniversary

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on February 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/26/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-february-2021/ | 2021-02-26 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Advisory for Second Semester, AY 2020-2021 
 Newly Appointed University Personnel on February 2021

----- DOC | Advisory for Second Semester, AY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/25/advisory-for-second-semester-ay-2020-2021/ | 2021-02-25 -----
Academic Break 

 Mid-Semester  Academic Break  –        19 – 24 April 2021

 During the academic break, faculty members are enjoined to refrain from conducting online classes and offline activities and assessments; and setting of deadlines for course requirements.

  

 Course Materials 

 Faculty members shall upload modules, learning guide and/or other learning materials to CvSU LMS or any appropriate platform accessible to the students. Copy of modules (printed/saved in USB) shall be provided to students upon request.

 All college/campuses are enjoined to facilitate a coordinated mechanism for distribution of modules (printed/saved in USB).

  

 Academic Deficiencies and Other Requirements 

 All students with NG during the 2 sem, A.Y. 2019-2020 shall be given until this semester (2 n d Sem, A.Y. 2020-2021) to submit the necessary requirements to change their grades to Satisfactory. 

 Academic deficiencies such as warning, probation and disqualification as stipulated in the Student Handbook shall be waived during this time of pandemic.

 Requirements of PRC (e.g. cases and rotation) needs to be satisfied, hence, adjustments on maximum residency shall be made.

  

 Conduct of classes and other academic activities 

 The following activities are still suspended*:

 
 Face to face classes

 On-the-job training (on site/face- to-face or virtual)

 Internship (on site/face- to-face or virtual)

 Clinical duties (on site/face- to-face or virtual)

 Practice Teaching/Field Study (on site/face- to-face or virtual)

 Fieldwork /Community Immersion

 Other activities that will require face to face meetings/interactions including laboratory experiments for thesis/dissertations

 
 *Suspension of the above-mentioned activities shall only be lifted once advised/approved by the IATF, CHED and LGUs.

 Appropriate alternative learning platforms shall be utilized in conducting classes in exchange for the contact hours to achieve the course outcomes/program outcomes including evaluation and assessment. Example of learning platforms are electronic and non-electronic learning methods, modules, self-directed learning activities, simulations, case-based scenarios, among others.

 If a synchronous on-line class will be conducted, a one-hour on-line class is recommended for a 3-unit course. The remaining hours shall be devoted to other off-line activities.

 SOURCE: OVPAA Memo No. 8 s. 2021

----- DOC | Education Circle raises money for kapaTEDs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/25/education-circle-raises-money-for-kapateds/ | 2021-02-25 -----
The Education Circle, the official academic organization of the Teacher Education Department (TED)of the College of Education (CEd), initiated a fundraising event dedicated to helping TED's pre-service teachers (or KapaTEDs as how they call it) for the online class set up in the midst of pandemic.

 The virtual event dubbed as “PISONET: Drop a coin for minutes of exploration, Donate a coin to give access to Education” , held on 21 February via the official FB page of Education Circle was able to raise P6,000.00 during its three-hour duration. It featured TED artists and performers as well as student-performers from within and outside CvSU.

 Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar delivered the welcome remarks while Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, CEd dean and Dr. Florencio R. Abanes, TED chairperson sent their messages of support for the event and the organization. The event was hosted by Education Circle officers, Rizzalyn O. Aliwalas and Val Patrick P. dela Rea and was made more exciting with games and prizes, spearheaded by Education Circle VP-Internal Bernard Batino. Performers were given certificate of recognition for their voluntary contribution in the said event.

 The event, which reached 6,185 total engagements, was also supported by Silang, Cavite Vice Mayor Hon. Aidel Paul G. Belamide. The idea of donating a coin was inspired by a local computer business named PISONet that requires the user to drop coins for access to the computer for a limited time. Beneficiaries were selected according to their ability to attend online classes and their internet connectivity. ( VPDelaRea/JRFFabregar)

----- DOC | CvSU qualifies in IPOPHL's Gold Cluster Category | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/25/cvsu-qualifies-in-ipophls-gold-cluster-category/ | 2021-02-25 -----
Cavite State University secured a position in the Gold Cluster Category of the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL) Clustering Scheme of Innovation and Technology Support Office (ITSO) 2.0 Program.

 Despite the COVID19 pandemic, CvSU ITSO, headed by Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, has drafted and filed six invention patents in 2020 – a requirement for Gold Cluster Category in ITSO 2.0.

 The award was given during the “DG Talk with the ITSO Managers” conducted online by IPOPHL.

 https://www.facebook.com/cvsuiptbm/photos/a.160186559039305/256452479412712/

----- DOC | Valenzuela qualifies for national accountancy quiz | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/18/valenzuela-qualifies-for-national-accountancy-quiz/ | 2021-02-18 -----
Tricia Mae Valenzuela, a third year BS Accountancy student from Cavite State University, made it to the finals of the 13th PICPA National Accounting Quiz Showdown (NAQDOWN) organized by the National Federation of Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants (NFJPIA).

 

 A total of 141 participants from all the regions in the Philippines joined the contest, via Zoom, and only the top five from each hub (Luzon, Visayas, Mindanao, and NCR) will proceed to the final round which will happen during the National Mid-Year Convention on 14-20 March.

 
 Here's her story of her NAQDown experience and words of encouragement to fellow accountancy students:

 “Each JPIA local chapter was allowed to send a maximum of two participants for NAQDOWN. For the CvSU-chapter, me and a fifth-year, was chosen. I was only informed about the said competition on January 27, so I only had around three weeks to prepare. The coverage were the following CPA licensure examination subjects:  Financial Accounting and Reporting (FAR), Advanced Financial Accounting and Reporting (AFAR), Management Advisory Services (MAS), Auditing, Taxation, Regulatory Framework for Business Transactions (RFBT). I was hesitant to participate. I wanted to backout. However, the person who recommended me for this competition was someone I truly respect and admire, Sir Djehan Astilla, my accounting professor, thus I accepted the challenge. I decided to give it a shot by taking a 'shortcut review' – just answering my past exams and downloading test banks since there was not enough time to go over all my books.

 At the day of the event, I had no confidence at all. All I was thinking about was how I wasted too much time binge-watching anime and K-drama, so to calm myself, I prayed. But throughout my review, I never ceased my prayers to God, entrusting upon Him all that will happen. On the actual showdown, that was also what I did— I prayed to God, asking Him for strength and knowledge to help me. Honestly, I was surprised that I managed to come this far, for I am aware that my preparations were lacking compared to the other participants. I was already contented when I managed to pass the elimination round wherein the Top 10 per hub were selected to proceed to the semi-finals, so when I became one of the Top 5 Luzon hub qualifiers—I had no words. I was overwhelmed, and thankful.

 For my fellow students, I know how scary this course can be. There were a lot of hardships and setbacks to overcome, a lot of sleep to forfeit, and other sacrifices to make. However, I want you to remember that as we chase after the elusive three letters, we are not alone in this journey. We have our parents, friends and most especially God, who supports and will continue supporting us all the way. It is okay to fall once or twice, as long we steel ourselves and stand back again. Don't be afraid to reach for the stars, but do try to keep your feet on the ground. Per aspera, ad astra .”

----- DOC | PCAARRD grants P20.2M to CvSU extension projects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/17/pcaarrd-grants-p20-2m-to-cvsu-extension-projects/ | 2021-02-17 -----
With a total budget of P20,219,480, the Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development (PCAARRD) approved three extension projects of Cavite State University (CvSU) for implementation this year.

 The first approved project entitled “ Enhancing the Agri-Aqua Food Value Chain through Smart Technologies towards Food Resiliency in the New Normal in CALABARZON ” will be implemented under the leadership of Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, Director of the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC). The project aims to enhance the food value chain for coffee in the region towards improving agricultural productivity, competitiveness, efficiency, and inclusive food sustainability. It hopes to benefit community-based farm enterprises, technology-based startups/spinoffs, and coffee farmers, cooperatives, associations, traders, and retailers in CALABARZON by implementing key approaches to strengthen the network of stakeholders and processes, increasing volume of production, improving quality of produce, and ensuring sustainable food value chain for coffee.

 Also given a thumbs up is the second phase of the Science for Convergence of Agriculture and Tourism (SciCAT) dubbed as SciCAT AVENUES or Access to Value-adding and Engaging iNnovations towards sUstainability of agri-Education and agri-tourSim . It aims to provide avenues in imparting science-based technologies through farm development and technology application in a sustainable way. This project will capacitate Silan AgriFarm and other interested individuals on agri-tourism management, transferring package of technologies, building strong partnerships for sustainable farm tourism services, promoting digital tourism as a marketing strategy, developing tour packages that comply with health protocols, increasing generated income from the production of fresh processed agricultural products, evaluating clients' feedback as design support mechanism towards continual improvement, and securing Department of Tourism (DOT) accreditation a farm tourism site. Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, Professor III of the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) will handle the project.

 Meanwhile, the DOST-PCAARRD-CvSU Agri-Aqua Technology Business Incubator (ATBI) Project was also approved for its second phase of implementation under the supervision of Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, CvSU Director for Extension Services. The project will continue to build a sustainable program that supports the government's efforts on revitalizing the economy of the country by equipping the incubatees with basic knowledge in agriculture, food technology, marketing, accounting and business management and provide them with facilities and equipment that will support their business operations; assisting in the creation of innovative and sustainable agri-business through the development of cost-effective way to link the research base knowledge of universities and incubates; and assisting in growing the business of the continuing incubatees into a more profitable and sustainable venture by introducing additional technology that will complement their operations and helping them build their market base through customer acquisition among the institution's linkages. (MMHerrera)

----- DOC | GoTrace app gets a thumbs up | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/17/gotrace-app-gets-a-thumbs-up/ | 2021-02-17 -----
The web-based contact tracing app, GoTrace, developed by the CvSU – CCAT Research and Extension team was recently presented to Rosario, Cavite Vice Mayor Hon. Antonio “Mao” Luna Jr. and he was impressed with its usability. The honorable vice mayor had since deployed the app in his office, and expressed his interest to recommend its implementation in all offices in the local government of Rosario.

 Present during the meeting were Ms. Laarnie R. Manuel, CvSU-CCAT extension coordinator and, Mr. Rhuzel Leinster Dean J. Julian, one of the developers of GoTrace. The meeting concluded with the vice mayor's assurance to strengthen the LGU's relationship with CvSU – CCAT Campus particularly in the area of education. (RLDJulian) 

 CvSU-CCAT Research and Extension team presents the GoTrace app to Rosario, Cavite Vice Mayor Hon. Antonio “Mao” Luna Jr. (in red polo shirt).

----- DOC | CvSU congratulates newly licensed vets | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/17/cvsu-congratulates-newly-licensed-vets/ | 2021-02-17 -----
Two hundred ninety-two out of 696   takers passed the February 2021 Veterinarian Licensure Examination, eight of whom were graduates of Cavite State University – College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences.

 First time takers from the University posted 63.64% passing rate, setting an overall performance of 57.14%, a passing percentage that is more than 15% higher than the national passing rate (41.95%). It has been said that this is one of the toughest licensure exams in the country.

 The successful examiners were:

 
 Hazel M. Armada

 John Michael C. Barrameda

 Cerise C. Chan

 Fernand Paulo P. Dela Cruz

 Mikhaela Mae C. Nadonga

 Carrey Lei I. Purificacion

 Patricia Anne F. Reyes

 Nicole Anne S. Sun

----- DOC | GADRC holds 1st Quarter Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/17/gadrc-holds-1st-quarter-meeting/ | 2021-02-17 -----
The Cavite State University Gender and Development Technical Working Group held its 1st Quarter Meeting on 02 February via Zoom.  All GAD Coordinators were informed that the University is co-hosting with the Province of Cavite for the Regional Women's Month Celebration to be held on 31 March. 31, 2021.

 Activities for the upcoming Women's Month celebration were also planned during the meeting. Monthly GAD activities and the respective college/campus/unit-partners were likewise plotted. For the month of February the College of Arts & Sciences, College of Criminal Justice and College of Education had been tapped to partner with the center for the different activities lined up.

 A Training of Trainers was also scheduled for the new coordinators and alternates to have full understanding of Gender and Development and what it takes to be a GAD Advocate.

 The activity was attended by 22 female and two male GAD Coordinators, CvSU MOVE officers, and KaTROPA members.

 Prior to this quarterly meeting, Dr. Susan G. Tan, new GADRC director, sat down with the center's staff discuss plans, activities, and budget for the year.

 First quarterly meeting of college/campus/unit GAD coordinators presided by Dr. Susan G. Tan, new GADRC director.

----- DOC | Admission Requirements and Procedures for First Semester, AY 2021-2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/16/admission-requirements-and-procedures-for-first-semester-ay-2021-2022/ | 2021-02-16 -----
College admission exam will be waived for First Semester, AY 2021-2022.

 However, the grades of applicants will be evaluated according to the admission policy of the University and alignment of SHS strand/track will still be implemented.

 ADMISSION PROCEDURES 

 The following are the links to the application form depending on the campus of choice: 

 For Main Campus, Bacoor, Carmona, Cavite City, General Trias, Naic, Silang, Tanza and Trece Martires City Campuses: https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/sign-in/ )

 For Imus Campus: www.cvsu-imus.edu.ph/admission/ 

 For Rosario (CCAT) Campus: http://cvsu-rosario.edu.ph/Online_Admission/online_admission.php 

 After downloading the application form, applicants should accomplish the form, affix their signature, and attach 1×1 ID picture.

 DOCUMENTS/CREDENTIALS TO BE SUBMITTED 

 First Year Applicants (SHS graduates) 

 
 
 
 
 
 Accomplished Application for Admission Form

 Certification of Grades from the latest semester signed by class adviser (downloadable from the online admission system)

 Grade 12 report card

 Grade 11 report card (for applicants who will take up Engineering courses) 

 

 

 
 First Year Applicants (ALS passers) 

 
 
 
 
 
 Accomplished Application for Admission Form

 Certificate of rating

 

 

 
 Transferees (Those who started college level from other university/school) 

 
 
 
 
 
 Accomplished Application for Admission Form

 Transcript of records/Certification of grades

 Other required documents such as Honorable Dismissal, Certificate of Good Moral Character, NBI or Police Clearance shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College/Campus concerned

 

 

 
 Second Course Applicants (Those who finished a two-year program or four-year degree program) 

 
 
 
 
 
 Accomplished Application for Admission Form

 Transcript of records/Certification of grades

 Other required documents such as Honorable Dismissal, Certificate of Good Moral Character, NBI or Police Clearance shall be submitted AFTER the applicant passed the grade evaluation of the College/Campus concerned

 

 

 
   

 DATES TO REMEMBER 

 Main Campus 

 
 
 
 Start of application 
 01 March 2021 

 
 Deadline of application 
 30 April 2021 

 
 
   

 Satellite Campuses 

 
 
 
 Start of application 
 01 March 2021 

 
 Deadline of application 
 15 July 2021 

 
 
   

 Tentative Schedule of Release of Admission Results 

 
 
 
 Main Campus 
 01 June 2021 

 
 Satellite Campuses 
 02 August 2021 

 
 
 Qualified applicants for college admission will be notified via email, phone call, text message, or FB messenger depending on the contact details provided.

 HOW TO SUBMIT THE REQUIRED DOCUMENTS 

 There are two ways by which applicants may submit all the required documents: hard copy via dropbox/courier/mail OR softcopy via online means.

 Hard copy (Submit photocopy of required documents through mail/ parcel/ courier/ drop box addressed to the specific campus of choice)

 Online/Soft copy (Submit scanned copy / screenshot / clear photo through email/ FB messenger/ google form link)

 Submit documents to the respective campus of choice . Details of each campus can be found below:

 
 
 
 CAMPUS 
 
 DETAILS 

 
 Main 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 osasmain.guidance@cvsu.edu.ph 

 admission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 For INCOMING First Year: https://tinyurl.com/yaxuah5h 

 For TRANSFEREES, SECOND COURSER, TCP applicants: https://tinyurl.com/79vd3rrr 

 
 FB messenger 
 FB page name:

 Cavite State University Main OSAS 

 
 Drop box 
 Municipal Office

 Main Gates 1 and 2 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Address:

 Office of Student Affairs and Services

 Cavite State University

 Indang, Cavite 4122 

 
 Bacoor 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 cvsubacoor.admission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 https://tinyurl.com/38624b3k 

 
 FB messenger 
 https://www.facebook.com/CvSU.B.Admission 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU Bacoor Campus Gate 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services

 Cavite State University – Bacoor City Campus

 Sampaguita, Bacoor, Cavite 4102 

 
 Carmona 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 carmonaosas@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 Will be available through https://www.facebook.com/CvSUCarmona 

 
 FB messenger 
 https://www.facebook.com/cvsu.carmona.1485 

 
 Drop box 
 Campus Gate 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – Carmona Campus

 Market Road, Brgy. Maduya,

 Carmona, Cavite 4116 

 
 Cavite City 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 cvsucccosas@gmail.com 

 
 Google Form Link 
 

 
 FB messenger 
 Cavite State University Cavite City Campus 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU – CCC Main Gate 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services

 Cavite State University – Cavite City Campus

 Brgy 8, Pulo II Dalahican Cavite City, 4100 

 
 Gen. Trias 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 cvsugeneraltrias.admission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 (will be posted once available) 

 
 FB messenger 
 CvSU General Trias City Campus Admissions 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU General Trias Admin Office 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – General Trias City Campus

Brgy Vibora, City of Gen. Trias, Cavite 4107 

 
 Imus 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 cvsuimus.admissions@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 

 
 FB messenger 
 CVSU Imus Admissions 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU Imus Admin Office 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – Imus Campus

 Cavite Civic Center, Palico IV,

 Imus City, Cavite 4103 

 
 Naic 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 jmmojica@cvsu-naic.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 

 
 FB messenger 
 Cvsu Naic OSAS 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU Naic Entrance Gate (Guard house) 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services

 Cavite State University – Naic Campus

 Bucana, Naic, Cavite 4110 

 
 Rosario (CCAT) 

   

   

   

   
 Electronic mail (email) 
 osa-admission@cvsu-rosario.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 

 
 FB messenger 
 Cavite State University- CCAT Campus 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU- CCAT Campus Gate II 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – CCAT

 Em's Barrio, Barangay

 Tejeros Convention, Rosario, Cavite 4106 

 
 Silang 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 cvsusilangadmission@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 

 
 FB messenger 
 https://www.facebook.com/osascvsusilang 

 
 Drop box 
 Cavite State University  Silang Campus Entrance (Guardhouse) 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – Silang Campus

Office of Student Affairs and Services

 Biga, Silang, Cavite 4118 

 
 Tanza 

 

 

 

 

 
 Electronic mail (email) 
 admission.cvsutanza@gmail.com 

 
 Google Form Link 
 (will be posted once available) 

 
 FB messenger 
 Cavite State University- Tanza 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU Tanza Admin Office 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – Tanza Campus

 Pabahay 2000

 Barangay Bagtas, Tanza, Cavite 4108 

 
 Trece Martires City 

 

 

 

 

 
 Electronic mail (email) 
   admissiontrecemartires@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 Google Form Link 
 (will be posted once available) 

 
 FB messenger 
 CvSU Trece Martires City Campus Admissions 

 
 Drop box 
 CvSU Trece Administration Office 

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc. 
 Cavite State University – Trece Martires City Campus

Brgy. Gregorio, Trece Martires City, Cavite 4109 

 
 
  

 PDF COPY OF ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES

----- DOC | Releasing soon, schedule and procedure of application for First Semester, AY 2021-2022 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/11/releasing-soon-schedule-and-procedure-of-application-for-first-semester-ay-2021-2022/ | 2021-02-11 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Supply and Delivery of Library Journals (One Year Subscription) – 2nd Posting 
 Admission Requirements and Procedures for First Semester, AY 2021-2022

----- DOC | CvSU med tech first time takers post 100% in licensure exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/10/cvsu-med-tech-first-time-takers-post-100-in-licensure-exam/ | 2021-02-10 -----
The Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) announced on 08 February that  1,919  out of   2,835  passed the Medical Technologist Licensure Examination.

 All the twelve first time takers from CvSU passed the said exam while a re-taker failed. Overall, the university posted a 92.31% performance.

 Among the successful examinees were:

 
 Delos Reyes, Nicole 

 Evangelista, Johnree 

 Feranil, Lairene Mhae 

 Grajo, Jonvic 

 Hortaleza, Lleda Mae 

 Linao, Dianne Kayle 

 Luviano, Lyka 

 Malto, Marie Lhar 

 Maniago, Katrina Nicole 

 Mendoza, Merhella Amor 

 Oliveros, Anne Caroline 

 Sabela, Calixto 

 
 The date and venue for the oathtaking ceremony of the successful examinees will be announced later by the PRC.

----- DOC | EJx 2020 participants share experience, learning | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/08/ejx-2020-participants-share-experience-learning/ | 2021-02-08 -----
Two BS International Studies students from Cavite State University, Queen Recca L. Marcellana (European Studies major) and Michelle T. Atas (Asian Studies major), participated in the East Java Exploration (EJx) 2020.

 EJx is an online short program co-organized by  Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember (ITS Surabaya)  and nine other prominent public universities in East Java province. The program offers multi-cultural understanding which lead to harmony in the global world.

 Here's what the students have to say about their experience:

 “ Capture beyond what your sight could reach ”. The very reason why we decided to join a program that is designed to educate people from multiple nations. Wanting to learn and explore things physically had been difficult as the world currently is facing these trying times. The pandemic has made face-to-face communication almost impossible leading to the rise of a new approach to learning: virtual learning.

 East Java Exploration (EJx) 2020 is a general course with a multidisciplinary approach for participants to explore the province of East Java, Indonesia in various aspects. The program was organized by 10 prominent universities in East Java – Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jawa Timur, Universitas Airlanga, Universitas Islam Negeri Sunan Ampel Surabaya, Universitas  Negeri Malang, Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember, Universitas Brawijaya, Universitas  Negeri Surabaya, Universitas Islam Negeri Maulana Malik Ibrahim Malang, Universitas  Trunojoyo Madura, and Universitas Jember.

 Each day, a university hosts a three-hour online session with a particular topic such as the history of  Indonesia independence day, smart city, history and Indonesian culture on Islamic New Year, Malangan Javanese and Walikan language, maintaining mental health during  COVID-19 pandemic, start-up ecosystem in Kota Malang, understanding Indonesian  language diversity, women empowerment within Muslim community in Indonesia, Madura  language and culture, and institutional arrangement of tobacco for community welfare and  tobacco for health.

 The program was informative and fun! Every session, the host university made sure that the class would be interactive. All the topics discussed were delivered effectively by experts. We engaged in academic activities from having a question and answer portion with the experts to writing down daily summaries of what we have learned in each session. A virtual tour in East Java cities was also conducted that made our exploration more effective. We were also grouped for a final project that we needed to work on together. Through this collaboration with other nationalities, we were able to socialize and build a great connection with them. On the last day of the program, every group's final project was presented. We were also assessed and given advice on matters that needed some improvements. The program equipped the participants with enough understanding of Indonesia's culture, diversity, and potential.

 

 Another great experience in this program was that both of us decided to apply for credit transfer and were successful in attaining them through research papers regarding certain topics about East Java. Together with our gained knowledge, we were also able to finish the program with fun memories and newfound foreign friends. The experience, all in all, was worth every minute spent.

 It has been long asserted that through actual experiences comes true learning. But with the recent events in our society, learning opportunities have become somewhat elusive. Staying at home meant we were only exposed to the four corners of our abodes. However, EJx made our stay at home experience great! Despite being held virtually, the program was delivered very well. Through their effective stimulation, we were able to capture sights and sites beyond our computers and the small environment in our homes. It is through online program like this that students can reach new heights, develop their knowledge, and further use it to make positive contributions”. ( QRMacellana/MTAtas )

 Ms. Marcellana participated in the first batch of EJx (15 August – 05 September 2020) while Ms. Atas joined the second batch (18 September 18 – 02 October). Their nomination as participants to the program was endorsed by the International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Offices of CvSU.

 In relation to this, ITS Surabaya is again calling for guest speakers/participants to the following e-programs:

 Call for Speakers

 
 Researcher and Research Student Enrichment Program (R2SEP) ( https://www.its.ac.id/international/r2sep/ )

 Guest Lecture Series (GLS) ( https://www.its.ac.id/international/e-program/gls/ )

 Global Learning Program (GLP) ( https://www.its.ac.id/international/e-program/glp/ )

 
 Call for Participants

 
 Fun Bahasa Indonesia and Cultural Course (FBICC) ( https://www.its.ac.id/international/e-program-fbicc/ )

 Experiencing New Normal through 360 Camera

 
 Interested faculty members and/or students may coordinate with the International and Local Collaborations and Linkages Office (iclo@cvsu.edu.ph). (JBAlitagtag)

----- DOC | Admin council conducts strat planning workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/08/admin-council-conducts-strat-planning-workshop/ | 2021-02-08 -----
To further focus on the directions of the University in 2021 to 2024, the CvSU Administrative Council convened for the first part of the strategic planning workshop series on 4 February via Cisco Webex.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, in his opening remarks, thanked the council and the CvSU community for the support and said that “ although we did not go as fast as we wanted, we seriously worked hard ” to accomplish most of the targets included in the first half of the seven-year strategic plan. With the Taal volcano eruption and the COVID19 pandemic, he encouraged the active involvement of the workshop participants in order to formulate strategies to fully adapt to the new normal and to continue to transform the institution into a proactive and responsive Research University.

 Brainstorming sessions were conducted on the following topics led by the respective discussant:

 
 
 
 Topic 
 Lead Discussant 

 
 Certificate of Program Compliance (COPC), AACCUP Accreditation, Center of Excellence, and Center of Development 
 Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel Jr. 

 
 Infrastructure Development 
 Engr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes 

 
 Research University 
 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac 

 
 SMART University 
 Dr. Camilo A. Polinga 

 
 EduTourism 
 Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer 

 
 PRIME-HRM 
 Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora 

 
 
 
 Dr. Leyma L. Cero, VP for Planning and Development, laid out the mechanics of the workshop series and explained that the first part will be for the macro-level review and planning, part two will be for college/campus/unit planning, and part three will be for the presentation of the consolidated strategic plan and operational plan for FY 2021. She also stressed that addressing the major points in the strategic plan will also facilitate SUC-levelling and QS Ranking requirements.  Engr. Orlando B. Delos Reyes, Director for Planning, moderated the event.

 CvSU Admin Council members convene via Cisco Webex on 04 February 2021 to plan the directions of the University in 2021-2024.

----- DOC | CvSU-CHED Project MASKS: Protect, augment, educate | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/08/cvsu-ched-project-masks-protect-augment-educate/ | 2021-02-08 -----
Despite the limitations of time and quarantine restrictions, more than 70,000 recipients benefited from Cavite State University's (CvSU) project dubbed as “ M anufacture and Distribution of A dequate Facemasks for the S afety of K ey Personnel and Various Frontliner S (Project MASKS). This three-month project, funded by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), initially targeted to bring 50,000 pieces of washable face masks to the community to help impede the transmission of COVID19.

 In its pursuit to deliver excellent service even during a pandemic, CvSU, thru Project MASKS, made a humble yet significant contribution to help the community by producing and distributing washable facemasks to prevent the spread of COVID19, by providing opportunities to tailors to earn extra income, and by designing, producing, and disseminating communication materials containing reminders on how to properly use masks.

 Sample of the washable facemask. 
 Protecting the Community 

 As various evidence supports that wearing of facemask can reduce the spray of droplets and thus prevent the spread of COVID19, Project MASKS provided washable facemasks to health workers, social workers, uniformed personnel, public market personnel, senior citizens, and children among others in Indang and the nearby communities.  The mask came in three sizes – small, medium, and large and were designed based on health implications, durability, mass, breathability, and usability.

 All finished products were properly cleaned and sanitized prior to packaging. They were individually packed in clear polyethylene plastic bag. Volunteers from various offices in the CvSU-Main Campus, including the University President and the Vice Presidents, helped during the packaging of the sanitized masks.

 The volunteers during the packaging of the masks led by the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles (upper left) and the CvSU Vice Presidents. 
 Mayor of Indang Hon. Perfecto V. Fidel (in purple), a school principal, and head of PNP -Indang as they receive masks from the project team. 
 Through the support of Indang Municipal Mayor Hon. Perfecto V. Fidel Strict, boxes of masks were distributed to different barangays and elementary schools in the municipality of Indang, and to frontliners, military sector, and other community members such as persons with disabilities, women, men, and children living near the coastal areas of Rosario, Cavite. Strict obedience to health protocols and safety measures were observed during the distribution.

 Helping Augment Income 

 Behind every mask produced lies a story of courage and perseverance of tailors who lost jobs because of the pandemic.

 Some of the partner-tailors who earned income thru the project. 
 Project MASKS gave the partner-tailors new hope for new opportunities and strengthened relationships. Ten tailors from God's Will Neighborhood Association in Gawad Kalinga Rosario, Cavite were initially tapped as lead production partners in the manufacturing of facemasks. Through referrals and coordination with community partners, other tailors coming from Indang, Amadeo, Trece, and Tanza were recruited bringing the total to 36 tailors. All of whom were grateful for the opportunity to help in achieving the goal of the project and earn a living at the same time.

 Since they came from different places in Cavite, a sample mask from the lead tailors were provided and a short video tutorial on how to sew and combine the parts of the facemask was also made available ( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lopazqIisxE ). Raw materials and other supplies were provided and allocated to the tailors depending on their production capacity and finished products were rigorously inspected to ensure they conform to the specifications.

 
 
 
 Awareness-Building 

 To educate and inform the recipients on the proper use of masks, an acrostic was developed and placed inside each pack of mask.

 
 
 
 English 
 Filipino 

 
 M ake sure that you wear your mask when talking to people. 
 M agsuot ng mask tuwing makikipag-usap sa ibang tao. 

 
 A djust the mask to always cover your nose, mouth and chin. 
 A yusin ang pagkakasuot ng mask upang matakluban ang ilong, bibig at baba. 

 
 S anitize your hands before removing the mask through its straps. 
 S anayin ang sarili na naghuhugas ng kamay bago alisin ang mask sa pamamagitan ng straps nito. 

 
 K eep your mask clean by washing it with soap/detergent and hot water everyday. 
 K ailangang palagiang labhan ang mask gamit ang sabon at mainit na tubig. 

 
 S haring of used masks is not advisable. 
 S iguraduhing hindi ipagagamit sa iba ang mask na nagamit na. 

 
 
 
 A Facebook page was also created to inform community members and partners on the progress of the project, for continuous advocacy to wear mask to protect one's self and their families, and a call to action for everyone to realize the value of cooperation.

 The project also laid the ground for more outputs and future collaborations with the community partners.

 Project MASKS was made possible through a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) signed by CHED Chairman Prospero E. De Vera III and CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles with a grant amounting to Php2,437,321.48. CvSU's former VP for Research and Extension Dr. Ruel M. Mojica served as the project leader and was assisted by Mr. Gee Jay Bartolome and Lady Aileen Orsal (project staff), Ms. Rosalie Pelle and Ms. Elizabeth Legaspi (project support staff), and Ms. Julia Francine Bagay and Mr. Aljhon Bryan Sabater (research assistants).

----- DOC | College of Education opens 2021 with research colloquium | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/08/college-of-education-opens-2021-with-research-colloquium/ | 2021-02-08 -----
To help students adapt and be adept in research and to increase their research productivity and capability, the College of Education held a student research colloquium with the theme “ Reimagining Research Excellence in Education, Tourism, and Hospitality Management in the New Normal ” last 08 January via Cisco Webex.

 

 Dr. Ma. Junithesmer D. Rosales, dean of the College of Education, Polytechnic University of the Philippines delivered the keynote speech while then CvSU Vice President for Research and Extension, Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, shared his knowledge and expertise on “Research Development and Innovation in the Changing Time” during the plenary talk. He emphasized the importance of conducting research amidst all the adversities.

 Highlights of the activity were the presentation of various student researches and the awarding of Best Paper and Best Proposal Awards. Here is the list of winners:

 Teacher Education Category 

 Best Paper: “ Effectiveness of Digital Comics in Learning Color of Light of Grade 8 Learners” 

 Authors: Jhowielyn Cuadra, Joyce Ann Depiña, Jelson Mondas, Charisse Kim Nuguid, and Beleth Vidal

 Adviser: Dr. Jovan B. Alitagtag

 
 Best Proposal : “Assessment of Competencies of Bachelor in Technology and Livelihood Education Students at Cavite State University” 

 Authors: Crystel Jade Bermudo, Ly-An Joy Herpacio, Necy Sanchez, and Cedrick Erol Uy

 Adviser: Dr. Jovan B. Alitagtag

 
 Tourism and Hospitality Management Category 

 
 Best Paper : “Job Performance of Tourism Management Graduates of Cavite State University – Main Campus, Indang, Cavite, AY 2010-2019″ 

 Authors : Ryan Ken Bulilan, Maan Hingpis, Sojin Kang, Ma. Jukie Ann Loyola, Khrist Anne Pajo, Jessa Perido, Chrishane Nicole Vergar

 Adviser : Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero

 
 Best Proposal : “ Acceptability of Jackfruit Rags (Artocarpus Heterophyllus) as Filling in Making Tart” 

 Authors : Perrine Beltran, John Paul Lemita, Christine Lerios, and                        Runel Umbal

 Adviser: Dr. Jennifer E. Barrientos

 
 Evaluators in the Teacher Education Category were Dr. Agnes C. Francisco, Mr. Jonathan R. Digma, and Mr. Glenn Cryan A. Creencia, while Dr. Teddy Tepora, Ms. Sheryl D. Fenol, and Ms. Mary Jane A. Amparo served as evaluators in the tourism and hospitality management category. The activity was spearheaded and initiated by the CEd Research Coordinator, Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar.

 College of Education opens 2021 with student research colloquium via Cisco Webex on 08 January 2021.

----- DOC | Janairo says doctors are “necessities”, medical school very important | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/02/janairo-says-doctors-are-necessities-medical-school-very-important/ | 2021-02-02 -----
The Department of Health (DOH) CALABARZON Regional Director Eduardo C. Janairo assured Cavite State University (CvSU) of his support and assistance as the University sets to establish a College of Medicine and offer Doctor of Medicine program in August of this year. Dr. Janairo believes that medical schools are very important to sustain human resource because “ doctors are necessities, they should not be demanded. They should be present always ”.

 DOH CALABARZON Regional Director Eduardo C. Janairo 
 During the collaborative meeting between CvSU and DOH provincial and regional officials, Dr. Janairo shared the landscape and development plans related to medical and health care services in CALABARZON and is confident that the establishment of a College of Medicine in CvSU will help fill in the gaps in human resource particularly those providing medical services for the 16.4 million people in the region. Meanwhile, Cavite Provincial Health Officer Dr. Nelson C. Soriano, emphasized the importance of the inclusion of public/community health in the curriculum.

 For the part of the CvSU administration, Dr. Hernando D. Robles is keen on mobilizing resources to establish a Level III base hospital in the soonest time possible.

 The CvSU College of Medicine aims to produce medical pluralist graduates with diverse knowledge and skills in providing health care to the community as well as professional physicians and ethical researchers with deep sense of duty and service.

 Also present in the meeting were DOH CALABARZON Medical Officer IV Dr. Wyda D. Beriña, Regional BHW Outcome Manager  Kristine Mariel  C.  Villasanta , Local Health System Regional Coordinator Lorenza C. Serafica   Meanwhile, CvSU officials who attended the meeting were Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro (VP, Academic Affairs), Dr. Camilo A. Polinga (VP, Admin and Support Services), Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac (VP, Research and Extension), Leyma L. Cero (VP, Planning and Development), dean of the College of Nursing Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, director of the International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Prof. Maria Soledad M. Lising, Dr. Annie M. Ramos, and Dr. Bernadette A. Sapinoso.

 CvSU and DOH officials during the collaborative meeting on the establishment of College of Medicine.

----- DOC | Attention: IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/02/02/attention-important-dates-to-remember/ | 2021-02-02 -----
January 30, 2021 – Last day of submission/uploading of grades for graduating students.

 February 3, 2021 – Last day of submission/uploading of grades for non-graduating students.

 February 4, 2021 – Last day of College and Campus Academic Council Meeting.

 February 9, 2021 – University Academic Council Meeting.

 February 1-12, 2021 – Enrollment Period.

 *For continuing students, please refer to your respective colleges for the schedule and process of your year level enrollment for Second Semester, 2020-2021.

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on January 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/01/29/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-january-2021/ | 2021-01-29 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Newly Appointed University Personnel on January 2021 
 Attention: IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on January 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/01/26/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-january-2021/ | 2021-01-26 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Available courses offered for 2nd Semester SY 2020-2021 
 Newly Appointed University Personnel on January 2021

----- DOC | Available courses offered for 2nd Semester SY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/01/11/available-courses-offered-for-2nd-semester-sy-2020-2021/ | 2021-01-11 -----
Applications for Admission for Second Semester, SY 2020-2021 will be until February 4, 2021. 

 AVAILABLE COURSES OFFERED – 2 ND SEMESTER SY 2020-2021 

   For incoming new students- 

 
 Senior High School graduate but not yet enrolled to College 

 
 BS Hospitality Management

 BS Tourism Management

 BS Economics

 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine

 
 ALS Passer 

 
 BS Hospitality Management

 BS Tourism Management

 BS Economics

 For Transferees- 

 (Applicants who started their college level from other Universities/College) 

 BS Agriculture

 Bachelor of Agricultural Entrepreneurship

 BS Environmental Science

 BS Food Technology

 Bachelor of Elementary Education

 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education

 Bachelor of Special Needs Education

 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education major in Home Economics

 Bachelor of Secondary Education

 Major in English

 Major in Mathematics

 Major in Science

 Major in Filipino

 BS Hospitality Management

 BS Tourism Management

 BS Accountancy

 BS Business Management – 2 nd year level (major in Service Management Program)

 BS Economics

 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine

 Applicants for Teacher Certificate Program (Bachelor degree graduate) 

 Second Courser applicants- 

 (Bachelor degree graduate) 

 BS Economics

 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine

 The following courses are not available this Second Semester, SY2020-2021 for application of incoming new students due to unavailability of slots: 

 BS Agriculture

 Bachelor of Agricultural Entrepreneurship

 BS Environmental Science

 BS Food Technology

 BA English Language Studies

 BA Journalism

 BA Political Science

 BS Applied Mathematics

 BS Biology

 BS Psychology

 BS Social Work

 BS Criminology

 BS Industrial Security Management

 Bachelor of Elementary Education

 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education

 Bachelor of Secondary Education

 Major in English

 Major in Mathematics

 Major in Science

 Major in Filipino

 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education

 BS Architecture

 BS Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering

 BS Civil Engineering

 BS Computer Engineering

 BS Electrical Engineering

 BS Electronics Engineering

 BS Industrial Engineering

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Office Administration

 BS Industrial Technology major in Automotive

 BS Industrial Technology major in Electrical

 BS Industrial Technology major in Electronics

 BS Accountancy

 BS Business Management

 BS Development Management

 BS International Studies

 BS Medical Technology

 BS Nursing

 Diploma in Midwifery

 Bachelor of Physical Education

 Bachelor of Exercise and Sports Science

 The following courses are not available this Second Semester, SY 2020-2021 for application of transferees and/or transferee-shiftees due to unavailability of slots: 

 BA English Language Studies

 BA Journalism

 BA Political Science

 BS Applied Mathematics

 BS Biology

 BS Psychology

 BS Social Work

 BS Criminology

 BS Industrial Security Management

 BS Architecture

 BS Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering

 BS Civil Engineering

 BS Computer Engineering

 BS Electrical Engineering

 BS Electronics Engineering

 BS Industrial Engineering

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Office Administration

 BS Industrial Technology major in Automotive

 BS Industrial Technology major in Electrical

 BS Industrial Technology major in Electronics

 BS Development Management

 BS International Studies

 BS Medical Technology

 BS Nursing

 Diploma in Midwifery

 Bachelor of Physical Education

 Bachelor of Exercise and Sports Science

 
 Shiftees (current CvSU students wanting to shift course) must coordinate with the College the student intends to shift course.

 Returnees (old CvSU students wanting to be readmitted) must coordinate with their respective College Registrar.

 
 PROCEDURES ON APPLICATION: 

 
 Applicants may apply on-line using this link: https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ 

 Applicants may submit their application form and other requirements in any available means including but not limited to the following:

 
 
 
 
 Electronic mail (Email)

 

 
 osasmain.guidance@cvsu.edu.ph

 
 
 
 Google form https://forms.gle/BnaWGtLsxRhM6zP19 

 

 
 
 
 
 FB messenger

 

 
 CvSU Main OSAS

 
 
 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc.

 

 
 Office of Student Affairs
Cavite State University
Indang, Cavite 
 
 
 
 Drop box at Indang Municipal Office

 

 
 
 
 
 Drop box at CvSU-Main Campus Entrance Gates (Gate 1 & Gate 2)

 

 
 
 The following are the required credentials/documents which can be submitted either in hard (must be photocopied) or soft copy (scanned, screen shots etc.):

 
 For incoming First Year College Student- Applicants: 

 
 Filled out application form for admission
 
 Copy of the filled out application form for admission;

 Grade 12 report card; and

 Certification of good moral character

 

 
 For transferees and second- courser Student- Applicants: 

 
 Filled out application form for admission

 Transcript of Records

 NBI clearance/ Police clearance (for transferee only),

 Certification of Good Moral Character, and

 Honorable dismissal (for transferee only)

 
 
 Applicants shall be notified regarding their admission in any means, including but not limited to Email, FB Messenger, text messages, phone calls, mail, parcel, courier etc.

----- DOC | CEMDS faculty, students join NEDA forum | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/29/cemds-faculty-students-join-neda-forum/ | 2020-12-29 -----
A total of 14 faculty members and nine students from the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies (CEMDS) attended the CALABARZON Economic and Financial Literacy Forum via Zoom.

 The said activity was organized by the National Economic Development Authority last November 27, 2020 with the theme, “E-konomiya: Maingat na Pag-angat” (Digital Economy for Faster and Safer Recovery).

 Topics discussed are the following: ReCharge PH by Dr. Thelma C. Manuel; Accelerating Philippine Digital Transformation by Edriel Miranda; and Benefits of Online Banking and Digital Payments, Protection from Online Fraud by Marie Khristine Pajarillo.

 In a quiz held during the forum, Mr. Ralph de Laza (BS Accountancy) got the first prize for student category while Ms.Jenalyn Salonga got the 2 nd prize for the faculty category.

 Faculty participants from CvSU include Thea Maries Perez, Reinalene Joy Casiano, Laarni Basa, Elaijah Herrero, Jenalyn Salonga, Jade Anne Estacio, Aberto Aguilar, Maria Isolde Sustrina, Djehan Astilla, Dolores Aguilar, Tita Lopez, Sharon Matilla, Betsy Rose Fidel, and Mailah Ulep. Meanwhile, student participants include Sheena Guillermo, Mechille Cui, Mark Aloysius Sanchez, Shella Lagdaan, Ralph de Laza, Jon Nickson Edralin, Marlon Loba, Ross Tan and Lovern Comaling. (MGTibayan) 

 Quiz result during the forum

----- DOC | DILG, CAS work on BDRRM comm project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/21/dilg-cas-work-on-bdrrm-comm-project/ | 2020-12-21 -----
The Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Region IV-A collaborated with Cavite State University, particularly the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS)– Department of Languages and Mass Communication, for the implementation of its capstone project in Cavite.

 Entitled “Co-creating Disaster Preparedness Communication as an Approach to Enhancing Community Resiliency”, the project aims to develop a participatory process of creating disaster preparedness communication materials and to enhance the capability of two barangays in developing the said materials and publishing them on their respective Facebook pages.

 The project is headed by Ms. Charmaine R. Lopez and coordinated with Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, dean of CAS and Ms. Kimmi Dane N. Jimenez, Extension Coordinator for BA Journalism.

 As one of the Local Resource Institute (LRI) partners of DILG IV-A, Journalism faculty members participated in the series of workshops with officials and selected community members of Brgy. Panapaan V in Bacoor and Brgy Mediccion II-D in Imus, Cavite. They shared their Barangay Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Plan with the team and received insights on how to better connect to the residents through posts on their official Facebook pages.

 Project team with DILG, CAS and other community members

----- DOC | NCRDEC hosts COFFEE B.R.E.A.K. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/21/ncrdec-hosts-coffee-break/ | 2020-12-21 -----
Aiming to bring coffee education in the digital platform, the National Coffee Research Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) hosted a nine-part Coffee B.R.E.A.K. (Breakthrough on Research and Extension for the Advancement of Knowledge of Stakeholders) from July to December 2020.

 The said series is a complete package of topics on coffee from history and production to processing, business and marketing, and health scheduled every month.

 The following are the topics covered in the webinar: Characterization and Identification of Cultivated Coffee in the Philippines by Dr. Miriam D. Baltazar, research unit head of NCRDEC (July 30); Building up the Chemistry: Investigating the Science behind Coffee Processing by Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Vice President for Research and Extension (August 20); Declaration: Communicating Coffee Products through Branding and Packaging by Mr. Rene Jethro Abary of the Packaging Technology Division under the DOST- Industrial Technology Development Institute (August 27); Pursuing Viable Coffee Business Ventures by Mr. . Michael Harris Conlin, President and CEO Henry&Sons Trading and Manufacturing Company, Inc (September 3); Meet the Parents: Tracing the Roots of Philippine Coffee by Ms. Bel Castro, Assistant Dean of the  College of Hospitality Management at Enderun College (October 15); Nurturing the Connection: Growing Coffee through Various Propagation Methods by Mr. Mr. Rodrigo H. Diloy, Education Program Specialist II of NCRDEC (November 11); Time for Labels: Accreditation and Certification of  Coffee Nurseries by Mr. Danilo T. Dannug and Mr. Earl Austin Aromin of DA- Bureau of Plant Industry (November 25); Mutual Understanding: How Coffee Affects Your Health by Ms. Josefina T. Gonzales, Science Research Specialist II at DOST-Food and Nutrition Research Institute (December 8); and Commitment: Road to Having Your Own Coffee Shop by Mr. John Paul Buhain, Café Management Trainor at Barista & Coffee Academy of Asia (December 15).

 Also featured in the sessions were enterprises offering local coffee products. These include Kape Lorenzo, Coffee Geney, Café de Cabuyao, MAR's Coffee and Herbs, RIALITY coffee and Aguinaldo Blend Coffee.

 The said webinars were conducted by CISCO Webex and streamed live on NCRDEC's Facebook page. Moreover, replays were then uploaded on NRDEC's Youtube account known as NCRDEC TV.

 Participants of the sessions include academicians, employees of government agencies and local government units, members of non- government organizations, representatives of private enterprises, and coffee enthusiasts. (AJMagcamit) 

 Poster for the 8th session of COFFEE B.R.E.A.K.

----- DOC | CvSU students win awards in food photo contest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/21/cvsu-students-win-awards-in-food-photo-contest/ | 2020-12-21 -----
CvSU students bagged two awards in a food photography competition themed “Food Through Lens: Flavors of Quarantine” organized by the College of International Tourism and Hospitality Management of Lyceum of the Philippines University-Cavite last December 14, 2020.

 Niño P. Rocela, fourth year BS Hotel and Restaurant Management student won third place while Jay Roson Mendoza, third year BS Hospitality Management student, won “Organization's Choice Award” in the said competition.

 Four other students successfully contributed their entries in the said activity. They are Eloissa M. Merabite, Mary Joy L. Taberna, Bryan Paul T. Castro and Almhira S. Jacob. Meanwhile, Mr. Mark Anthony Arandia and Mr. Ferdie Andulan served as coaches of the participants.

 A total of 22 entries competed for five awards from the organizers. (PRLucero) 

 Rocela's Classic Filipino Stir-fried Adobo Pancit Bihon 
 Mendoza's Lomi ng Batangas 
 CvSU participants with their coaches

----- DOC | 15 CvSU reps attend AACCUP Orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/21/15-cvsu-reps-attend-aaccup-orientation/ | 2020-12-21 -----
With state universities and colleges invited by the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities (AACCUP), Inc., Cavite State University faculty and staff attended the virtual AACCUP Webinar on Outcomes-Based Quality Assurance and Online Accreditation Orientation on December 15-18, 2020.

 The said activity aimed to discuss outcomes-based quality assurance and online accreditation including the survey instruments, Program Performance Profile and rating system used in the said online assessment of various academic programs.

 Participants from CvSU include Prof. Willie C. Buclatin, Prof. Nancy C. Alaras, Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian, Dr. Pia Rhoda P. Lucero, Dr. Rezin C. Bahia, Prof. Arlene L. Estrada, Dr. Famela Iza C. Matic, Prof. Cristina M. Signo, Dr. Marlon Mojica, Dr. Ariel F. Santos, Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, Prof. Armina Pugay, Dr. Roselyn Ymana, Ms. Dan Marie F. Navarette, and Prof. John Xavier Nepomuceno.

 The following are the topics discussed in the said webinar: The AACCUP Outcomes-Based Accreditation System and Online Accreditation and Implementing the CHED-Sponsored Quality Assurance in State Higher Education Institutions by Dr. Milabel Enriquez Ho, Executive Director of AACCUP Inc and Former President of Western Mindanao State University ; Implementing the CHED-Initiated Outcomes-Based Quality Assurance System by AACCUP BOT Member Dr. Maria Glenda O. De Lara; The Rating System by Dr. Rolando F. Hechanova, President of SKSU; Team Consultation and Decision Making by Dr. Raul F. Muyong; Strategies in Preparing and Writing Accreditation Reports by Dr. Anthony M. Penaso, President of Caraga State University; and Professional and Ethical Responsibility of Dr. Dexter R. Buted.

 A total of more than 300 participants from various SUCs in the country attended the said webinar. (PRLucero)

----- DOC | CED research collab presented in APCoRE 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/21/ced-research-collab-presented-in-apcore-2020/ | 2020-12-21 -----
Researchers from the College of Education presented papers in the Asia-Pacific Consortium of Researchers and Educators (APCoRE) 2020  International Virtual Conference held on December 2-4, 2020 with the theme “Embracing Change, Forging Ahead”.

 Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar presented his paper entitled “Organizational Climate in Public High Schools in the Province of Laguna and Lifelong Service of Junior High School Teachers”  while Dr. Jovan B. Alitagtag  shared his research on “Emotional Intelligence and Leadership Effectiveness of Public Junior High School Heads in the Province of Laguna”.

 Prior to this, Dr. Fabregar and Dr. Alitagtag, together with Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, presented their research entitled  “Social Cohesion in times of Pandemic: A View from the Frontliners of the Local Government Units in CALABARZON” in the 2020 PSPA International Conference on October 23-24, 2020. It was also accepted for publication in the Development Academy of the Philippines Working Paper Series No.1 and the SEAMEO Journal 2020 Special Issue, Volume 2, February 2021  with the theme: Maximizing Learning: Education Responses during COVID-19 Crisis and Beyond.

 This is in addition to their recently finished research entitled “Preparedness of SUCs In CALABARZON in the Implementation of Flexible Learning in the New Normal” which was funded by the CvSU Research Grant.

 Their teamwork serves as an example of relevant researches the University has been supporting to address the needs of the community even amidst the pandemic. (JAlitagtag/JFabregar/RCrizaldo) 

 Dr. Alitagtag sharing his research in APCoRE 2020

----- DOC | CEMDS spearheads GAD-related webinars | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/20/cemds-spearheads-gad-related-webinars/ | 2020-12-20 -----
A two-day webinar series on Gender and Development was conducted for faculty members of the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies (CEMDS) on December 7 and 8, 2020 via Zoom. It was participated by 28 female and 3 male faculty members of the college.

 Day 1 was dedicated to Gender Sensitivity Training for new faculty members which also served as a refresher for others. Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, the college GAD coordinator, discussed basic GAD elements including the provisions of Republic Act 7877 or the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995.

 Meanwhile, Day 2 was devoted to the discussion of the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGDG) to educate the faculty members in the use of HGDG in the preparation for research proposals, extension activities, and accomplishment reports. Mr. King David Agreda, GAD Coordinator of Cavite City Campus, served as the resource person. (TMPerez) 

 CEMDS faculty who joined the webinar

----- DOC | CvSU joins 18-day campaign to end VAW | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/20/cvsu-joins-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw/ | 2020-12-20 -----
Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) sponsored the celebration of the 2020 18-Day Campaign to End Violence against Women (VAW) via Zoom Video Communications, Inc. and Facebook Live on December 15, 2020. It was participated by 667 female and 291 male faculty members, non-academic employees, students, and external clients of the university.

 The objectives of the celebration was to pursue the common vision of a VAW-free community and identify measures that will respond to the needs of victims/survivors of abuses.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, welcomed all the administrators of the university, the participants of the webinar, and the resource speaker. In his message, he assured that CvSU and GAD-RC will continue to pursue the equality relevant to the rights and privileges of women and children.

 Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom-Leachon discussed the house rules, objectives of the activity, and the results of the pretest answered by the participants. She also introduced the resource speaker.

 Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, a Certified National GAD Resource Pool Member of PCW and the former GAD Director of CvSU, oriented the participants on the laws in relation to violence against women. Dr. Cresino also answered questions from the participants which revolve around experiences and knowledge of the participants in relation to VAW.

 In her closing message, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC, expressed her gratitude to everyone who always support the GAD endeavors of the university.

 Banner for the activity 
 Team who facilitated the activity

----- DOC | CvSU hosts 5th GAD Research Conference | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/20/cvsu-hosts-5th-gad-research-conference/ | 2020-12-20 -----
The Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) hosted the  5 th GAD Research Conference last December 17, 2020 via Zoom Video Communications, Inc. It was participated by 9 female and 11 male faculty researchers and students of the university.

 The conference aimed to identify innovative and relevant research results for presentation and publication and appreciate the presentation of GAD researches.

 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Vice President for Research and Extension, welcomed the participants of the conference. In his message, Dr. Mojica said that this particular conference is an avenue to showcase CvSU's research outputs on gender and development which is one of the five thematic areas of the university's research and extension agenda. He also stated that the results of the conference will be a plus factor for the GAD research plans considering the importance of gender and development in the day-to-day research activities of the university and even in the daily lives of the CvSU community.  He further noted that the prime movers of GAD researches are the CvSU faculty members and staff of GADRC.

 After the message of Dr. Mojica, Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom-Leachon discussed the house rules, objectives of the activity, and the results of the pretest answered by the participants. She also introduced the resource speaker.

 Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, former GAD Chair for Research and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, Director, Makapuno RDE Center, served as the evaluators of the researches presented. Prof. Mildred A. Sebastian, Dr. Victoriano N. Rodil, Mr. Cereneo S. Santiago, Jr., and Dr. Susan G. Tan presented their research papers while Ms. Zarah Jane R. Centeno, Ms. Thea Maries P. Perez, and Dr. Victoriano N. Rodil presented their research proposals.

 The evaluators gave suggestions on how to improve the research proposals and how to present the research results. They also gave tips on how to conduct GAD-related researches.

 In behalf of Dr. Jenny Beb F. Ebo, Research and Development Unit Head of the GAD-RC, Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC delivered the closing message. She expressed her gratitude to the evaluators for contributing their valuable insights and to the participants who devoted their time despite of their busy schedules. She also said that as a faculty member of CvSU, one of their tasks is to contribute to the university's vision of becoming a research university and GAD researches play a vital role in it.

 

 

 Participants of the 5th GAD Research Conference

----- DOC | Administrators, oriented on GAD through webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/20/administrators-oriented-on-gad-through-webinar/ | 2020-12-20 -----
An orientation on gender and development was conducted by the University's  GAD Resource Center among CvSU Administrators via Zoom Video Conferencing and Facebook Live last December 9 and 14, 2020.

 Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, delivered the welcome message on behalf of the University President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles. In her message, Dr. Nuestro said that thru the webinar, the participants will be enlightened on the important issues of gender and development, hence, they could properly address gender issues affecting their respective offices, units and colleges/campuses. Moreover, they can use appropriate resources to come up with relevant and excellent results and achievements that would further the cause of gender equality in the university.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat discussed the house rules, objectives of the activity, and the results of the pretest answered by the participants. She also introduced the resource speakers.

 Ms. Genesis Giselle T. Baseleres, a certified CALABARZON GAD Resource Pool Member and a University Research Associate II of the University of the Philippines – Los Baños,  discussed Basic GAD Orientation while Ms. Renifer R. Franciso, a certified National GAD Resource Pool Member of Philippine Commission on Women and Education Supervisor II of CHED ROIV, discussed Gender Mainstreaming and GAD Planning and Budgeting.

 For the second day, Ms. Lovely S. Mores, a certified National GAD Resource Pool Member of PCW and Senior Economic Development Specialist of NEDA ROIV, explained the importance of using the Gender Analysis and Gender Analysis Tools in all programs of the university.

 Dr. Susan G. Tan, Training and Extension Services Unit Head of GAD-RC, delivered the closing message. She stated that with the topics discussed during the two-day webinar, all the participants had a grasp of what gender and development is. She further challenged the participants to embrace recognition as the best implementer of GAD among SUCs in CALABARZON in terms of gender mainstreaming. She also highlighted Ms. Francisco's message that everybody is part of one team composed of the different colleges, campuses, and units of the university and that this fight to mainstream GAD is indeed a collaborative effort.

 Facilitators for the 2-day GAD webinar

----- DOC | GAD webinar for PG-COPS conducted | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/20/gad-webinar-for-pg-cops-conducted/ | 2020-12-20 -----
The University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC), in partnership with the Provincial Government – Cavite Office of Public Safety (PG-COPS), conducted a webinar on GAD entitled “Equalizing the Difference” for the  21 female and 60 male personnel of PG-COPS last November 19-20, 2020 via video conferencing.

 Ms. Claudette Trixia M. Flores, PRO III of PG-COPS, welcomed the participants and speakers of the webinar. Dr. Susan G. Tan, Training and Extension Services Unit Head of GAD-RC, discussed the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 and the Safe Spaces Act while Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC discussed the Use of Gender-Fair Language.

 The talk was followed by an open forum with Ms. Flores of PG-COPS acting as moderator.

 GAD webinar for PG-COPS

----- DOC | Admission for 2nd Sem AY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/19/announcement-for-admission-2nd-sem-ay-2020-2021/ | 2020-12-19 -----
ANNOUNCEMENT: 

 2 nd Semester SY 2020-2021 Application for Admission for MAIN CAMPUS will start on December 17, 2020 to February 4, 2021. 

 Online submission of application and requirements –

 The following are the details:

 a. Applicant will go to this link ( https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ ) and answer the online form

 b. Applicant will download the accomplished online form and attach 1×1 ID picture and put signature

 c. The following are the required documents/credentials which can be submitted either in hard copy (thru mail, parcel, courier, drop box) or soft/scanned copy or screenshot (thru email, FB messenger, Google form link):

 First year applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Grade 12 report card; and

 Certification of good moral character

 
 ALS passer applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certificate of Rating; and

 Certification of good moral character

 
 Transferee applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certification Credentials – Transcript of Records/Certificate of Grades, Honorable Dismissal, Certificate of Good Moral Character

 NBI Clearance

 
 Second-course applicants: 

 
 Copy of the filled-out application form for admission;

 Certification Credentials – Transcript of Records/Certificate of Grades, Honorable Dismissal

 
  

 d. Applicant will submit application and required documents through the following manner –

 
 Electronic mail (Email) – guidance@cvsu.edu.ph 

 Google form link: https://forms.gle/j2c46RErMEcbB4rU9 

 FB page link:      https://www.facebook.com/CvSUOSAS 

 
 FB page name:        Cavite State University Main OSAS

 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc.

 
 Address:          

 Office of Student Affairs and Services 
Cavite State University
Indang, Cavite 
 
 Drop box at Indang Municipal Office

 Drop box at CvSU-Main Campus Entrance Gates (Gate 1 & Gate 2)

 
 e. The grades reflected in the Transcript of Record (TOR) / Certificate of Grades (COG) of transferees and second coursers will be evaluated in accordance with the admission/retention policy of CvSU. The grade requirement for transferee is GPA of 2.00 (equivalent of 85%) or better and no failed grades.

 f. No transferee or shiftee shall be admitted for the following programs:

 
 Engineering programs – after the first-year level

 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program – after the fourth-year level

 Other programs – after the second-year level

----- DOC | Graduating students attend pre-employment webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/03/graduating-students-attend-pre-employment-webinar/ | 2020-12-03 -----
The University's Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS)-Placement Service Unit, in partnership with college placement coordinators, conducted the 2020 Pre-Employment Webinar on December 3,2020 with the theme “Landing on the Job in this New Normal: Ways to Make it Best”.

 In her welcome remarks, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, emphasized that the activity is a good opportunity to listen to the experiences of the speakers and to capture ideas relevant to their chosen path which may serve as a guide to their future careers. Meanwhile, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, inspired the students to enjoy the whole process as they work on being experts in their fields while remaining humble even after having a number of achievements.

 The first topic entitled “Resumé Link- The Most Secured Resume” was delivered by Mr. Kim Chua, Managing Director of Jobs180.com. He discussed how to create and update a resume link through the said site that makes job application easier and more secured. He also mentioned tips on how to make the applicant's profile stand out and effective in finding a career that matches the qualifications of the said graduate.

 Meanwhile, the topic ““Preparing for Virtual Interviews” was discussed by Ms. Jane Sophia Sapit, HR Sourcing Assistant of Cognizant Technology Solutions. She taught the participants the difference between initial and final interviews. She also gave sample questions and dress codes that will help them in the process.  In addition, Ms. Sapit emphasized the importance of the Present-Past-Future formula in answering the question, “Tell me something about yourself” which is necessary to create a good impression to the employers.

 The last topic on ““Basic Labor Rights and In Demand Occupations” was presented by Ms. Ruth E. Arevalo, Senior Labor and Employment Officer from Department of Labor and Employment – Cavite. She gave an orientation on the payment of wages and other benefits of an employee like_holiday pay, overtime pay and leaves provided in companies. She also discussed about the working hours and the deductions that are unauthorized by the law.

 In her closing remarks, Ms. Sharon Isip, Dean of the Office of Student Affairs and Services, reminded everyone to consider the knowledge learned from the webinar and use them well to succeed in the future.

 More than 500 graduating students attended the said virtual activity done thru Webex and streamed on the Facebook page of OSAS.

 Speakers, together with organizers of the webinar

----- DOC | Makapuno stakeholders collab for nat'l summit | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/12/02/makapuno-stakeholders-collab-for-natl-summit/ | 2020-12-02 -----
Stakeholders from various sectors involved in the makapuno industry participated in the 2 nd  National Makapuno Summit hosted by the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) –  CALABARZON and Cavite State University (CvSU) on November 26 to 27, 2020.

 With the theme “Empowering the Stakeholders of the Philippine Makapuno Industry Amidst the Pandemic”, the event aimed to discuss significant contributions in the development of the makapuno industry and to identify gaps which can be filled through possible partnerships.

 In his message, Hon. Fortunato T. de la Peña, DOST Secretary, emphasized the opportunities brought by makapuno as a high value crop while also encouraging participants to continue collaborations to further develop the said industry. Meanwhile, Gen. Benjamin R. Madrigal, Administrator of Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA), inspired the participants to mainstream appreciation for science and technology in various fields as he mentioned the activities in different makapuno farms.  Both served as guests of honor in the said activity.

 The participants also witnessed the e-launching of the growth chamber developed by the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center to produce disease-free and quality coffee and makapuno planting materials. The said technology was funded by DOST – Philippine Council for Industry, Energy and Emerging Technology Research and Development while DOST-CALABARZON funded the piloting of the said technology. The Makapuno Research, Development and Extension (RDE) Center to be established at CvSU was also launched geared at spearheading various makapuno-related RDE initiatives.

 An awarding ceremony was also held to give recognition to those who made significant contribution to the successful implementation of the Makapuno Island Project. They are the following: Mr. Joel J. Arandela (Best Farmer); Mr Nelson T. Omila (Special Recognition); Ms. Myleen L. Culing (Best Farm Technician); and Ms. Zita M. Mesa (Best Municipal Agricultural Officer). Dr. Alexander R. Madrigal, Regional Director of DOST-CALABARZON, was also given a Plaque of Recognition for setting directions and accomplishing milestones in the makapuno industry through his leadership and initiatives.  Meanwhile, the winners for the poster competition recognized during the summit include: PCA-Albay Research Center for the Coconut Ice Cream with Makapuno Liquid Endosperm (1 st place and Viewers' Choice Award); National Coconut Research Center – Visayas and College of Engineering, Visayas State University for the Development and Quality Evaluation of  'Makapuno' (Cocos nucifera L. 'makapuno') Biscotti (2 nd place); and Department of Agriculture RFO-IVA – Lipa Agricultural Research and Experiment Station (LARES) for the Sustainable Embryo-Cultured Makapuno Production at Lipa Agricultural Research and Experiment Station (3 rd place).

 The summit was also loaded with relevant discussions on global and local makapuno landscape through the following plenary speakers: Dr. Le Cong Nong, Director of Institute of Oil and Oil Plant in Vietnam; Dr. Roland Bourdeix, International Expert of Diversiflora Enterprise in France; Mr. Alfred Kembu, manager of Productivity Improvement Program Kokonas Indastri Koporesen in Papua New Guinea; Dr. Hengky Novarianto, Senior Scientist at Indonesia Palm Crops Research Institute in Indonesia; Dr.Alexander R. Madrigal, Regional Director of DOST-CALABARZON; Ms. Maria Buena A. Ubaldo, Science Research Specialist II at PCA-ALbay Research Center; Mr. Ramon Rivera, Regional Manager of PCA-CALABARZON; Mr. Policarpio Abary, Makapuno Entrepreneur in Quezon; Dr. Joel Lee, Director of School of Chemical Life Sciences at Nanyang Polytechnic in Singapore; and Mr. Jun Ayensa, Makapuno Farmer.

 An estimate of 220 stakeholders participated in the said summit conducted via Zoom and streamed live on Facebook. Participants were composed of makapuno farmers and processors, state universities and colleges and other private higher education institutions, national government agencies, non-government organizations, local government units and other interested private individuals.

 DOST Sec. de la Peña and PCA Administrator Gen. Madrigal as guests of honor in the summit

----- DOC | GADRC partners with PG-PPDAO, CDP for mental health webinar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/30/gadrc-partners-with-pg-ppdao-cdp-for-mental-health-webinar/ | 2020-11-30 -----
In line with the celebration of the World Mental Health Day, the Univeristy's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) collaborated with the Provincial Government – Provincial Persons with Disability Affairs Office (PG-PPDAO), and Center for Disaster Preparedness (CDP) for a two-day webinar training of trainers on mental health and psychosocial support for the 16 female and 3 male frontliners of One Life Foundation and Dasmariñas Community Christian Bible Baptist Church last November 9-10, 2020.

 Ms. Marie Shiela Antenor-Haloc, Disability Affairs Officer IV of PPDAO-Cavite, welcomed the participants of the webinar. After the welcome remarks, facilitators from CDP gave mini-activities and breathing exercises for the participants to be relaxed and comfortable with one another.

 The participants were then divided into two groups. The first group was facilitated by Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta and Mr. Jose Mari Pineda while the second group was facilitated by Ms. Jocelyn T. Samson and Ms. Leizl Love B. Jimeno.

 In the breakout session, participants were asked to introduce themselves after and afterwards were given the opportunity to talk about their coping mechanisms, resilient attributes and their post pandemic hopes in the new normal.

 The second day of the activity focused more on the basic concepts of mental health and psycho-social support (PSS) and the skills of a PSS provider. Tips for self-care/coping with stress was also discussed. The participants were again divided into two groups and they were tasked to do a role-playing where they will be the ones to act out as the PSS facilitator.

 After the session, the participants were refreshed with the things they learned and they expressed their eagerness to relay such knowledge to their respective offices. They also expressed willingness to serve and work with Center for Disaster Preparedness in conducting psycho-social support training in Cavite.

 World Mental Health Day has been celebrated every 10th day of October each year since 1992. It aims to promote mental health advocacy, to educate the public, to raise awareness and to try to prevent the stigma which is still often associated with mental health issues. Moreover, the 2nd week of October of every year has been declared as National Mental Health Week by virtue of Proclamation No. 452. The importance of mental health was even more recognized as the pandemic brought changes that led to physical distancing and increase of anxiety and stress.

 

 Participants of the training for trainers on mental health

----- DOC | 2021 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop conducted | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/30/2021-gad-planning-and-budgeting-workshop-conducted/ | 2020-11-30 -----
The University's Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) hosted the 2021 GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop last October 14-15, 2020. It was attended by 19 female and 3 male GAD coordinators and alternates from the different colleges, campuses, and units of the institution.

 The workshop aimed: to enhance the knowledge and skills of all the participants in preparing their respective GAD Plan and Budget; to identify programs, projects and activities that will address gender issues in the university and adopted communities; and to enhance the awareness of the participants in valuing the GAD program as a tool in developing a highly gender responsive university.

 Dr. Leyma L. Cero, Vice President for Planning and Development, pointed out that the GAD plan and budget being prepared by the university are not to be taken lightly and thought of as merely a compliance. She stressed that the GAD plan and budget is part of the university's fight to achieve gender equality and that the university needs to consistently look and scrutinize things thru the gender lenses in order to win the said fight.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC of GADRC, thoroughly discussed the importance of the GAD plan and budget, which aims to put into place effective mechanisms and measures for gender mainstreaming throughout the whole university system.  She also spelled out the issues and concerns on gender and established strategies and instruments with reachable targets for the Focal Point System.  The corresponding budget to be carried out in implementing GAD PAPs was also discussed.

 It was pointed out during the webinar that the GAD plan must be built on the lessons learned in the implementation of the previous GAD plans, observations of the GAD advocates, organizations, and our clients. Gender-mainstreaming was also injected throughout the discussion where the participants exchanged thoughts, ideas, and best practices on how they can overcome issues surfacing in their respective colleges, campuses, and units. The first day ended with the participants accepting the challenge of change.

 Day two activities focused on the participants' presentation of their respective 2021 GAD Plan and Budget while Ms. Estebat and Ms. Shirlyn R. Leachon gave their comments and suggestions on how to improve their plan and budgets. Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, Director of Finance Management Office, gave her closing message. She mentioned the full support of the university, particularly the Finance and Management Office, in all GAD activities.

 

 

 Participants of the GAD Planning and Budgeting Workshop

----- DOC | GAD-RC facilitates 2-day webinar workshop on research proposal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/30/gad-rc-facilitates-2-day-webinar-workshop-on-research-proposal/ | 2020-11-30 -----
GAD-RC facilitates 2-day webinar workshop on research proposal 

 by King David J. Agreda 

 The Gender and Development Resource Center (GAD-RC) hosted a two-day webinar workshop on GAD Research Proposal Presentation last September 25 and 28, 2020.

 The webinar-workshop aimed to strengthen the practices and science of application that would reduce gender inequalities and gender issues.  It also outlined the importance of the various methods in integrating sex and gender implementation in conceptualizing a research proposal.

 The said activity was facilitated by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Officer-In-Charge of GAD-RC, and was attended by 35 female and 15 male research and gender and development coordinators and alternates coming from different colleges and campuses of cavite state university.

 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Vice President for Research and Extension, encouraged all the participants to take the lead in shaping the university's research and development agenda through the integration of Gender and Development in research.

 Former director of Gender and Development Resource Center, Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, gave a lecture on the integration of Gender and Development in Research while retired Professor and former GAD chair for Research, Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, gave a thorough analysis on how to correctly identify research problems in the sector of GAD.

 After the lecture, the participants were tasked to work on the formulation of research topic and to present it for critiquing.  After their topic presentation, Dr. Cresino and Dr. Mojica gave their insights and suggested numerous approaches and techniques to all the presenters in order to advance the quality of their research topics.

 The webinar workshop ended with a discussion on the current Gender Statistics by Dr. Jenny Beb F. Ebo, Research and Development Unit Head of the GAD-RC. (KDAgreda) 

 

 Participants in the two-day webinar workshop

----- DOC | CvSU webinar tackles mental wellness | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/24/cvsu-webinar-tackles-mental-wellness/ | 2020-11-24 -----
Providing an intervention to help employees cope with the new normal work conditions, the Human Resources Development Office (HRDO) and the University Health Services (UHS) spearheaded a health and wellness webinar entitled “Strengthening Employees' Mental Health in the New Normal” last November 19, 2020.

 In their messages, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, and Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, emphasized the need to refresh and recover as employees cope in the new setup brought by the pandemic. This was further explained when Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Director of HRDO, gave the participants the rationale behind the activity hoping that it will give relevant strategies to cope with mental difficulties and uplift mental wellness through spiritual intervention.

 The first session entitled Understanding Mental Health in the New Normal was delivered by Dr. Louziela P. Masana, licensed psychometrician and current coordinator of the Psychology Program in the T3 Campus (Gen. Trias, Trece and Tanza). She started with asking the current mood of the participants and reminded them that experiencing mental difficulties is normal when facing an abnormal situation but warning signs must be noticed to be addressed. She  mentioned some of the possible activities to be done like observing proper breathing, listening to calming music, going for a walk, hugging a pet, talking to a friend, refocusing the mind and avoiding food with too much sugar and caffeine. She also discussed the 6 R's of Self-Care that include the need to Recognize the symptoms, Reconnect with family and friends, Reflect about goodness and gratitude, Renew about spirituality and philosophy, Reframe the mindset, and Refrain from things that do not help.

 Meanwhile, the second talk on “Mental Wellness through Spiritual Upliftment” was delivered by Rev. Carmel Villar-Paet, faculty member of the Center for Pastor Care at Union Theological Seminary. She discussed the benefits of spirituality to mental wellness with her lecture on Rediscovering Filipino Spirituality. She recommended heightening of “ kamalayan” and shared the concept of Tambayayong, a community support system practiced from womb to tomb in Leyte. According to her, it came from the words “tabang” which means to help and “yayong” which means to carry. “ Manginano ” drives people to ask or inquire others while “ magpakabana” reminds people to act to lessen the burden one is experiencing.

 The third lecture on “Coping Strategies for Mental Difficulties” was discussed by Dr. Rainier B. Umali, psychiatrist and associate professor at Our Lady of Fatima College of Medicine. He talked about depression, anxiety and stress and the ways to deal with them. He also enumerated the signs of depression that include having depressed mood, diminished interest in the daily activities, weight loss or gain, insomnia or hypersomnia, being easily startled, losing energy, feeling hopeless, worthless and helpless, feeling of guilt, and poor cognition. To manage such, Dr. Umali suggested using catharsis, having relaxation process, maintaining positive thinking and making sure there is physical movement. He also mentioned some types of treatments for certain conditions.

 After the insightful open forum, Dr. Romeo M. Sanchez, Director of the UHS, gave a recap of the key takeaways from the sessions and reminded everybody to help each other strengthen their mental wellness considering it not only as a timely issue but indeed a significant one.

----- DOC | DOST-PCIEERD gives CvSU free access to Science Direct, Scopus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/23/dost-pcieerd-gives-cvsu-free-access-to-science-direct-scopus/ | 2020-11-23 -----
The DOST- Philippine Council for Industry, Energy, and Emerging Technology Research and Development (DOST-PCIEERD) gave Cavite State University free remote access to Science Direct ( https://www.sciencedirect.com/ ) and Scopus ( https://www.scopus.com/ ) databases. 

 All CvSU students and faculty members with official CvSU email address may create and register their own account.   Instructions on how to access such can be seen through this link: 

 http://library.cvsu.edu.ph:82/ScienceDirect.php 

 Any questions or concerns may be directed to the CvSU-Main Campus Library (cvsulibrary@cvsu.edu.ph) or thru their official Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/cvsulibrary . 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Normal 
 0 
 
 
 
 
 false 
 false 
 false 
 
 EN-PH 
 X-NONE 
 X-NONE

----- DOC | CvSU recognizes 69 official student orgs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/18/cvsu-recognizes-69-official-student-orgs/ | 2020-11-18 -----
To provide holistic campus experience and student development even in the virtual setup, 69 student organizations were recognized by Cavite State University during the Leadership Seminar cum Student Organization Recognition Program organized by the Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) on Nov. 17, 2020 via Webex.

 With the theme “Leading in a COVID Era: Trends for Student Leaders”, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, encouraged the participants to consider leadership not as a means of power and authority, but as a responsibility to influence and to serve. This was further elaborated by Dr. Marie Gethsemanie P. Hilario, guest speaker, reminding the leaders that since the crisis that led to isolation has been affecting the youth, student organizations play a role in keeping the students mentally and emotionally healthy. She inspired the participants to be aware of the societal issues, to be involved in the change management and to forge stronger links to the community while also ensuring that their lives are not put at risk due to the pandemic. Dr. Hilario introduced SPACES , informing the student leaders to think of the Spiritual, Physical, Attitude, Cognition, Emotions Social Network and Satisfaction at Work to be able to adapt in the new normal and assist other students who also need help. During the open forum, she emphasized that collaboration with advisers and parents would help in the success of the student leaders. Conflicts, according to her, may still arise but having good communication among parties will help them solve the problem so they can prioritize the goal of the organization more than the individual differences. Dr. Geths, the wife of Dr. Paul Hilario from the College of Arts and Sciences, is a graduate of Master in Education in Guidance and Counseling and PhD in Counseling Psychology.

 Among the recognized organizations, 40 are academic, eight are non-academic, four belong to performing arts,  and seven to the religious groups while 10 are student councils including the Central Student Government. A certificate of appreciation was also given to the Commission on Elections who facilitated the CSG elections this year.

 After the awarding of certificates, Ms. Czerie Fei Ledesma, Head of Student Development Services, led the students in “Panunumpa sa Tungkulin”. An orientation on the policies and guidelines in conducting official activities was also given to the participants. Being registered trademarks, the CvSU and Laya at Diwa logo may only be used by recognized student organizations with approved activity proposals. OSAS also gave consideration to some organizations who were not able to renew due to lack of requirements. They may still send their documents until the end of November so that they will also receive their Certificate of Recognition.

 In her closing remarks, Ms. Sharon M. Isip, Dean of the Office of Student Affairs, inspired the participants with her rendition of “Ngayon”, reminding all that every day is a chance to see the good in every person like the philosophy of Carl Rogers, an American psychologist.

 More than 200 student leaders, faculty advisers and staff attended the said activity.

 Participants of the Leadership Seminar cum Recognition Program

----- DOC | CvSU runs virtual R&E AIHR 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/18/cvsu-runs-virtual-re-aihr-2020/ | 2020-11-18 -----
Research and extension never stops. Instead, it develops and innovates further amidst the pandemic!

 This was proven as Cavite State University conducted the Research and Extension Annual In-House Review (R&E AIHR) bringing all  speakers, evaluators, and participants in the virtual room.

 With the theme “Navigating the New Normal: Effective Research Methods amidst the Pandemic”, the Research In-House Review last November 3-4, 2020 delivered a keynote message from Dr. Elmer-Rico E. Mojica from the Dyson College of Arts and Sciences, Pace University in New York and two plenary talks from Dr. Louziela P. Masana and Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, both from CvSU.

 Dr. Mojica inspired the participants through his research journey with a team aiming for each of them to grow as experts in the field while also ensuring that dissemination of research outputs is conducted. He also shared the adjustments they made to still pursue their studies even with the current pandemic. Meanwhile, Dr. Masana's talk on “Flourishing Research Capability amidst the Pandemic: An Enhancement for Junior Researchers” reminded the participants to take care of their mental health while trying to work on their studies and building their credibility as researchers. On the other hand, the discussion of “Research for a Better Normal: Perspective of a Senior Faculty Researcher” delivered by Dr. Dela Cruz demonstrated how researches are anchored on global, national and institutional agenda as societal problems are addressed for more relevant studies. She also emphasized the research-instruction-extension continuum that is a guiding principle for researchers, both young and senior. Collaborative researches are encouraged and the administration ensured the continuous support to the University's research and development activities.

 Completed papers were divided into three categories. For the Agriculture, Life Sciences, Engineering and ICT, the following emerged as winners: Comparison of Different Enzyme Preparations for Production of Oligofructose and Inulin from Sugarcane Juice by Hosea L. Matel and Nhyll Angelo S. Acuña(1 st place); Morphological Characterization of Commercially Cultivated Coffee ( Coffea spp.) in the Philippines by Miriam D. Baltazar, Jermaine Marie Ann O. Fabella, Maowell A. Villanueva, Angeliza Restriva, and Mabell Amiscosa (2 nd place); and Surface Water Measurements and Carrying Capacity Assessment in Maragondon River Watershed, Cavite, Philippines by Noel A. Sedigo (3 rd place).

 For the Development Category, the following were awarded: Design and Development of a Programmable Logic Controller (PLC)-Based High Capacity Plant Tissue Culture Growth Chamber for the Mass Propagation of Coffee by Gerry M. Castillo, Rosalie A. Pelle, Al Eugene L. Torres, Ric Karl T. Flores, and Antonette Jean L. Magcamit (1 st place); Project ERGO: Development of Ergonomically Designed Tools for Various Industries Utilization by Willie C. Buclatin, Mary Joyce P. Alcazar, Gerry M. Castillo, Aivar M. Lopez, and Jay Vee L. Lacostales (2 nd place); and ICT-Assisted Growth Management System for Mud crabs: Deployment and Evaluation (3 rd place).

 Best Papers for Social Sciences include: Gender-Based Differentiation among the Elected Barangay Officials in the First District of Cavite by Victoriano N. Rodil, Frinze AL. A. Bernal and Seuz Rey R. Cantela (1 st place); Documentation and Analysis of Completed Researches of Undergraduate Students of Business Management by Gener T. Cueno, Sherrie Rose M. Rupido, Princess M. Feliciano, Tania Marie P. Melo, and Janice E. Paiton (2 nd place); and Predicting the Occupation Progress of a Person using Decision Tree-Based Analysis by Rossian V. Perea (3 rd place).

 Out of nine entries for poster papers, Best Poster was given to the study entitled “Morphological Characterization of Commercially Cultivated Coffee ( Coffea spp.) in the Philippines (Miriam D. Baltazar, Jermaine Marie Ann O. Fabella, Maowell A. Villanueva, Angeliza Restriva, and Mabell Amiscosa).

 A total of 17 on-going research projects funded through the CvSU Research Grant and the Faculty and Student Research Capability Enhancement Program were presented on the second day. First placers in the research and development categories were sent as entries to the 33 rd Regional Symposium on Research, Development and Extension Highlights sponsored by the Southern Tagalog Agriculture, Aquatic and Resources Research, Development and Extension Consortium.

 The Extension In-House Review, on the other hand, was conducted last October 21 with the following serving as evaluators of the on-going extension projects presented: Dr. Rolando V. Maningas, Chief of Information Services, Agricultural Training Institute Region IV-A, Dir. Armando V. Mendoza, Jr., Extension Services of Batangas State University and Dr. Almira G. Magcawas, CvSU.

 Papers presented include Barangay Entreprenyur: Business Sustainability Program for Samahan ng mga Nagkakaisang Kababaihan ng Carmona, Inc (Joan L. Fortuna and Melody N. Plaza of CvSU-Carmona), Ystilo de Chabacano Production and Commercialization: Barangay-based Fisherfolks Community Project (Emeriza S. Caparaz of CvSU-Cavite City), KAPWA: Kalusugang Aagapay sa Pangkaisipang Wasto at Akma Program for Persons Deprived of Liberty in Bureau of Jail Management and Penology Imus City (Ann Valery B. Sagrado and Kyle Ruselle P. Paredes of CvSU –Imus), REACH Project and Business & Entrepreneurial Skills and Training of PinyaBuhay for 4KTM or Kasaysayan, kultura, Kabukiran, Kainan (Zarah Jane Centeno of CvSU-Silang), SILAYAN 2.0 Psychological Wellness Program (Christine Marie P. Bayhon of CvSU-Silang), Zero Waste Management in the Coastal Areas of Naic, Cavite (Michelle C. Tanega of CvSU-Naic), Promotion of Fisheries Post-Harvest Technologies towards Food and Financial Security (Mariel Benigno of CvSU-Naic), and Hospitality Management Services and Business Management Trainings (Elsa D. Nueva of CvSU-Naic), Salin Impormasyon at Kaalaman sa Teknolohiya ng Kompyuter o SIKTeK (Sherrlyn M. Rasdas of CvSU-Naic), Tawid Karunungan: Functional Literacy Program (Catherine S. Diones of CvSU Naic), Phonological Awareness Training for Parents of Early Grade Students (Maria Leonora D. Guerrero of CvSU-Naic), BEEyond the Hive amidst Pandemic or CAS BEE (Michele T. Bono and Dickson Dimero of CAS). A total of 82 participated in the virtual Extension AIHR.

 Dr. Mojica who served as keynote speaker during the Research AIHR

----- DOC | 5 CvSU programs under 1st virtual accreditation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/16/5-cvsu-programs-under-1st-virtual-accreditation/ | 2020-11-16 -----
Aiming to continuously improve the quality of education, five programs from the three campuses of Cavite State University will undergo the first virtual accreditation visit from November 16-20, 2020.

 The following are the programs under visit: Preliminary Survey for BS Tourism Management (General Trias campus); 1 st Survey for BS Psychology (General Trias campus) and BS Information Technology (Tanza campus); and 2 nd Survey for BS Information Technology and BS Computer Science (CCAT campus).

 Accreditors from the Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines who will conduct the online assessment were divided per campus. For the programs in CCAT Campus located in Rosario, the team is composed of: Dr. Jude B. Rola from Visayas State University, Team Leader for BSCS; Dr. Jennifer C. Mamerito  from Iloilo State College of Fisheries, Lead Accreditor for BSCS; and Dr. Nemia M. Galang (Team Leader for BSIT) and Prof. Melojean C. Marave (Lead Accreditor for BSIT), both from President Ramon Magsaysay State University.

 Meanwhile, the BSIT program from Tanza campus will be reviewed by Prof. Reynold P. Villacillo from Mariano Marcos State University (Team Leader) and Prof. Christopher John R. Llanda from Abra State Institute of Science and Technology (Lead Accreditor).

 The team for the two programs under General Trias City campus is composed of: Dr. Elizabeth Marfel F. Gagni from Mariano Marcos State University (Team Leader for BSPsyc); Prof. Mydee O. Gervacio from Quirino State University (Lead Accreditor for BSPsych); and Dr. Sarah Marie B. Gador from Siquijor State College (Lead Accreditor for BSTM).

 On the other hand, Dr. Nancy F. Galban from Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University will review the documents and procedures relevant to libraries across all programs and campuses.

 A virtual accreditation room to provide necessary documents was prepared by the committee from the University headed by Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel, Jr., Director of the Institutional Development Office.

 In his welcome remarks during the Opening Program, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, emphasized that the quest for quality education must continue with the help AACCUP hoping that 2021 will be a better year for everyone.

----- DOC | Virtual Leadership Seminar cum Student Recognition Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/13/announcement/ | 2020-11-13 -----
The virtual Leadership Seminar cum Student Recognition Program will be conducted this November 17, 2020, 1 pm via Webex! Links will be sent to the organization's officers and advisers. Please check your mails and don't miss this! 

 
 Padayon, mga organisasyon!

----- DOC | DOST IV-A, CvSU to host Makapuno Summit this Nov | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/09/dost-iv-a-cvsu-to-host-makapuno-summit-this-nov/ | 2020-11-09 -----
From a center to a summit, Cavite State University (CvSU) continues to partner with Department of Science and Technology (DOST) –  CALABARZON for the  2 nd National Makapuno Summit to be conducted virtually this November 26 – 27, 2020.

 With the theme “ Empowering the Stakeholders of the Philippine Makapuno Industry Amidst the Pandemic ”, the event aims to share various efforts that lead to the development of the makapuno industry in the country. Activities to be expected include presentation of makapuno-related research and development projects conducted in the last five years, showcase of makapuno-related products and technologies, networking among makapuno stakeholders from different sectors, a virtual tour of makapuno laboratories, and the e-launching of the tissue culture growth chamber for makapuno and coffee embryos.

 Aiming for a  more inclusive summit to be streamed on Facebook, target participants include makapuno farmers and processors, state universities and colleges and other private higher education institutions, national government agencies, non-government organizations, local government units and other interested private individuals. Hon. Fortunato T. Dela Peña, DOST secretary, will serve as the guest of honor for the said event.

 Last 2019, the establishment of the region's Makapuno Center at CvSU was granted by DOST-CALABARZON during the celebration of the Regional Science and Technology Week. Meanwhile, it was in 2013 when the 1 st National Makapuno Summit was held in Lucban, Quezon gathering more than a hundred participants from various sectors with valuable contributions to the makapuno industry.

 Streamer for the summit 
 Signing of the Pledge of Commitment for the Makapuno Center during RSTW 2019

----- DOC | CvSU named as 3rd IP Master Class Top IP filer in patent | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/11/01/cvsu-named-as-3rd-ip-master-class-top-ip-filer-in-patent/ | 2020-11-01 -----
Along with other awardees, Cavite State University (CvSU) was named as Top IP filer in patent during the virtual graduation ceremony for the 3 rd Intellectual Property Master Class organized by the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST-PCAARRD) last October 23, 2020.

 The said Master Class was conducted as part of the Support to the University's Strategies in Technology Acceleration Initiatives by Nurturing the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management Offices of the Consortia Member Agencies – Phase II (SUSTAIN IP-TBM Phase II) funded by DOST-PCAARRD and done in partnership with Association of PAQE Professionals (APP) and Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHL) and  CvSU, with program leader Dr. Teddy Tepora.  Aside from being the lead agency for overall implementation of the program, Cavite State University is also the mentor agency for the member SUC's of the  Southern Tagalog Agriculture and Resources Research and Development Consortium (STARRDEC)  under the project Sustaining CvSU's IP-TBM Office and Enhancing IP-TBM Offices Among Member Agencies of STARRDEC.    Other mentor agencies in other regions include: Mariano Marcos State University (MSSU) for Ilocos Agriculture and Resources Research and Development Consortium (ILARRDEC), Bicol University (BU) for Bicol Consortium for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development (BCAARRD), Capiz State University (CaPSU) for Western Visayas Agriculture and Resources Research and Development Consortium (WESVARRDEC) , and University of South-Eastern Philippines (USeP) Southern Mindanao Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development Consortium (SMAARRDEC).  Each region has five mentee agencies with two representatives in the IP Master Class.

 Other awardees include Don Mariano Marcos State University (DMSSU)  as Top IP Filer in Utility Model, Dyle S. Legaspi from University of the Philippines – Mindanao (UP-M) as Mock Exam Topnotcher on Chemical Patenting, and James Andrew Q. Imperial from Rizal Technological University as Mock Exam Topnotcher on Mechanical Patenting.

 This first virtual IP Master Class that was conducted from July to October was composed of five modules that cover topics on: Basics of Intellectual Property, Patent Search and Prior art search, claim drafting Invention Spotting and Technology Disclosure, Legal Bases, Difference between Novelty and Inventive Step, responding to formality examinations, IPOPHL Programs, Employing the Problem-and-Solution Approach, and Actual Cases and Sharing of Patent Agents' Experiences.

 CvSU Representatives in the said training are Dr. Ma. Fatima I. Cruzada for Chemical Patenting and Ms. Rochelle C. Malabayabas for Non-Chemical or Mechanical Patenting. (TTepora/RJSanchez) 

 Certificate awarded to CvSU during the virtual graduation 
 Participants from CvSU 
 Dr. Teddy Tepora, the program leaders of SUSTAINIP-TBM Phase II 
 Poster for the launching of the IP Master Class 
 Participants of IP Master Class Module 1 & 2 during the lecture 
 

 Participants of IP Master Class Module 3 (Non-Chemical/Mechanical Group

----- DOC | OPISYAL NA PAHAYAG | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/30/opisyal-na-pahayag/ | 2020-10-30 -----
SA LAHAT NG MGA MAG-AARAL AT MGA MAGULANG:

 ISANG MAGANDANG ARAW PO SA INYONG LAHAT.

 MARIING PINABUBULAANAN NG PAMUNUAN NG CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY ANG MGA LUMALABAS NA BALITA NA ANG PAMANTASAN AY NANINIKIL O NANGGIGIPIT SA MGA KARAPATAN NG MGA MAG-AARAL.

 ITO PO AY ISANG MALAKING KASINUNGALINGAN. ANG PAMANTASAN AY MAY KABUUANG BILANG NA APATNAPU'T WALONG LIBO (48,000) NA LIBRE AT MALAYANG MAG-AARAL.

 DAHIL SA PANDEMYA, ANG MGA PARAAN NG PAGTUTURO AT PAG-AARAL AY BASE SA MGA STRATEHIYA NG “FLEXIBLE LEARNING” NA PINAGTIBAY NG BOARD OF REGENTS.

 Ang pamantasan sa pangunguna ng Office of Student Affairs and Services ang nagsasagawa at naglalatag ng mga programa at proyekto para sa kagalingan at pag-unlad ng kalagayan ng lahat ng mag-aaral na walang pinipili o hinihiwalay na  indibidwal anuman ang organisasyong kinasasapian.

 Sa katunayan, noong SY 2019- 2020,  ang pamantasan ay mayroong kabuuang  82 na organisasyon na kinilala at binigyan ng sertipiko. Sa kasalukuyan ay naghahanda naman ang OSAS para sa pagkilala at pagbibigay muli ng sertipiko sa mga kwalipikadong organisasyon ng mga mag-aaral ngayong SY 2020- 2021 na magaganap sa ika- 10 ng Nobyembre, 2020. Ang mga kinilalang organisayon ay  malayang nakagagalaw sa loob ng pamantasan.

 Malaya ang mga mag-aaral na magpahayag ng kanilang damdamin na naayon sa mga batas ng pamantasan na nasusulat sa “Student Handbook”.

 Ang pamunuan ng pamantasan kailanman ay hindi nag “Red Tag” sa sinumang indibidwal o grupo sapagkat wala ito sa mandato ng pamantasan.  Ang pamantasan ay nakatuon lamang sa mga gawaing akademiko at hindi lubhang nakikialam sa isyung politikal.

 Ang diumanong nangyaring “Red Tagging” sa isang NSTP Webinar ay patungkol sa pangkalahatang pagsusuri at paglalatag ng impormasyon at HINDI TUMUTUKOY SA SINUMANG INDIBIDWAL O GRUPO SA LOOB NG PAMANTASAN.

 Ang opinyon ng “Resource Person” ay kanyang sariling paglalahad at hindi ng Pamantasan. Nasa mga dumalo ang malayang desisyon kung sila ay maniniwala sa mga inihayag na impormasyon ng “Resource Person” o hindi. ANG PAMANTASAN AY HINDI KAILANMAN MANGHIHIMASOK SA GAWAIN NG IBANG SEKTOR NA SUPILIN ANG KARAPATAN NG MGA MAG-AARAL, GURO AT EMPLEYADO SA LOOB NG PAMANTASAN.

 MARIIN PO NAMING INUULIT NA ANG PAMANTASAN AY HINDI KAILANMAN NAG-“RED TAG” NG KAHIT SINONG INDIBIDWAL O GRUPO MAGING MAG-AARAL, GURO O EMPLEYADO. WALA PO ITO SA MANDATO NG PAMANTASAN.

 Sa kasalukuyan, ang Pamantasan ay nagsasagawa ng isang malayang halalan upang mapili ang mga susunod na mamumuno sa Central Student Government.  Ang GAWAING ITO AY ISANG MALIWANAG NA PAGPAPATUNAY NA ANG LAHAT NG KARAPATAN NG MGA MAG-AARAL AY MALAYANG NATATAMASA NG LAHAT.

 Kung sino man ang mananalong mga kandidato, anuman ang apilasyon, ay malugod naming tatanggapin at patuloy na susuportahan para sa ikagagaling ng lahat ng mag-aaral.

 Umasa po kayo na patuloy na gagampanan ng pamunuan ng pamantasan ang tungkuling mapayabong at mapaunlad ang kaalaman sa katuparan ng kanilang mga pangarap.

 MULI PO, ANG PAMANTASAN AY HINDI KAILANMAN NAG-'RED TAG' SA SINUMANG MAG-AARAL SA LOOB NG PAMANTASAN. WALA PO ITO SA MANDATO NG PAARALAN.

 PAUMANHIN PO ANG HINGI NAMIN SA ANUMANG IDINULOT NA AGAM-AGAM.

 SALAMAT PO.

 
 – PAMUNUAN

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on October 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/28/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-october-2020/ | 2020-10-28 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 One Year Contract for Janitorial/Housekeeping Services (2020) Main and Satellite Campuses 
 CvSU-Smart infocast

----- DOC | ADVISORY | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/21/advisory/ | 2020-10-21 -----
To all the student leaders processing their documents for the recognition of their respective student organizations, please read the following:

 

 
 1. Certificate of Grades during the last semester which can be taken from the CvSU Portal is accepted.

 
 2. Certificate of Audit is no longer required. Financial Report would suffice.

 
 3. Certificate of Good Moral Character is to be requested from the colleges. Soft copy is accepted.

 
 4. Student organizations are encouraged to choose the most convenient way of submitting their documents to minimize the risk of going out or going to the campus. Submission of soft copies of the documents is preferred (through email). For those who cannot do online transaction, documents may be placed in drop boxes either in Gate 1 or Gate 2.

 
 5. Submission of documents is extended until November 5, 2020 while recognition of student organizations is on November 10, 2020.

 

 
 While we are excited to have our student organizations recognized, we have to be reminded that everyone's safety is still a priority.

 
 Thank you.

----- DOC | 2 CvSU faculty study in US as Fulbright scholars | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/13/2-cvsu-faculty-study-in-us-as-fulbright-scholars/ | 2020-10-13 -----
The future is bright for two CvSU faculty members who flew in the United States early September 2020 to start their PhD journey under the Fulbright Foreign Student Program.

 Ms. Sheryl N. Sierra and Ms. Amyel Dale L. Cero both received the scholarship grant sponsored by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, US Department of State and facilitated by the Philippine-American Educational Foundation (Fulbright Commission in the Philippines), along with other Filipino scholars sent out in different states to participate in the said educational opportunity.

 Ms. Sierra is currently taking PhD in Agronomy and Horticulture major in Plant Breeding and Genetics at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln while Ms. Cero is currently enrolled in the PhD Environmental Science program with specialization in Water and Wetland Resources at State University of New York-College of Environmental Science and Forestry in Syracuse, New York. Because of the pandemic, both had to attend the virtual gateway orientation hosted by Wayne State University from August 3 – 21, 2020 and did some online classes in the Philippines before flying to their host institutions. As a protocol, they also completed a 14-day quarantine before being allowed to physically report in campus.

 Prior to the scholarship grant, Ms. Sierra has already been serving as Assistant Professor I at the Department of Crop Science, College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR), a faculty researcher of the University and the head of the Publication and Communication Division of the Knowledge Management Center. She has been teaching Genetics, Principles and Practices in Plant Breeding, Propagation and Nursery Management, Cereals and Legumes Production and Management, and Methods of Agricultural Research. She is a graduate of BS Biology major in Genetics at the University of the Philippines-Los Baños and was a recipient of the undergraduate intern scholarship at Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center, now called World Vegetable Center in Taiwan. This is where she worked on Inheritance of Whitefly-Transmitted Geminivirus in Tomato ( Lycopersicon esculentum ). She then obtained her degree in MS in Crop Science and Biotechnology major in Crop Molecular Breeding from Seoul National University in South Korea through the Graduate Scholarship for Excellent Foreign Students where she studied the Genetic Diversity of Rice Landraces Collected in Cordillera Region, Philippines.

 Meanwhile, Ms. Cero has been working at CvSU since 2015 where she served as a chair of the Department of Forestry and Environmental Science and a Public Information Officer of CAFENR. She has been teaching Environmental Ethics, Policies and Laws, Population, Resources, Environment and Development, Water and Air Pollution Management, Industrial Ecology, and Environmental Impact Assessment. She has also worked in the watershed projects with Provincial Environment and Natural Resources Office – Cavite, surface water assessment with Cavite Provincial Government, and climate risk vulnerability assessment with the Department of Agriculture Regional Field Office IVA. She obtained both her degrees in BS Biology (major in Microbiology) and MS Environmental Science from the University of the Philippines-Los Baños.

 As Fulbright scholars, Ms. Sierra and Ms. Cero are expected to return to the country to impart their learnings and experiences in an American institution to further enhance the quality of education in the University.

 Ms. Sierra and Ms. Amyel during the Pre-Departure Orientation at PAEF office 
 Both scholars in their host institutions

----- DOC | No NC for CvSU – SOCOTEC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/12/no-nc-for-cvsu-socotec/ | 2020-10-12 -----
It was a major victory for Cavite State University today as it passed its first virtual surveillance audit by SOCOTEC Certification Philippines, Inc. with no minor and major nonconformities, recommending for its continued certification to ISO 9001:2015.

 Even with the challenges brought by the new normal, the University continues to improve its services as guided by its Quality Management System (QMS) in the Provision of Admission and Registration, Management of Learning (covering Graduate and Undergraduate Programs) and Research and Extension Services.

 The one-day virtual audit conducted via Webex app was made possible through simultaneous sessions on Context Audit, Planning and Development, OSA Functions, Knowledge Management, Tertiary and Graduate Courses, Finance and Accounting, Purchasing and Supply Management, Control of Documented Information and Internal Audit.

 During the closing meeting, CvSU got: two positive findings that focused on commendable organization of documented evidence and demonstration of auditees' understanding of the requirements of the standard and the QMS; one opportunity for improvement that suggests on adapting a scheme of face-to-face Guidance Counseling Progress Report even for online counseling; and three observations that emphasize on the revisiting of allocation of internal auditors, improvement of documented information on supplier re-evaluation activities, and revisiting of calibration requirements and schedule applicability.

 The team of auditors from SOCOTEC was composed of  Ms. Laureen Grace Calmerin  as the Lead Auditor, Mr. Gilmore Rivera and Mr. Baltazar Lachica as Support Auditors, and Mr. Robert Jarquio and Ms. Estrella Buenaventura as Technical Experts. The said certifying body was formerly known as AJA Registrars Inc. which first gave CvSU its ISO 9001:2015 certification in 2018.

 Prior to the surveillance audit, the CvSU Internal Quality Auditors, headed by Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, conducted an internal audit among various units in the University from August 19 to September 9, 2020. The inputs of the said activity were discussed and addressed in the Management Review on September 24 headed by University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles and facilitated by Dr. Leyma L. Cero, Vice President for Planning and Development and focal person for the CvSU QMS.

 As stated in its Quality Policy, “We C ommit to the highest standards of education, v alue our stakeholders, S trive for continual improvement of our products and services, and U phold the University's tenets of Truth, Excellence, and Service to produce globally competitive and morally upright individuals”.

----- DOC | Cavite HEIs collab for learning in the new normal | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/12/cavite-heis-collab-for-learning-in-the-new-normal/ | 2020-10-12 -----
“Flexible. Agile. Resilient.” 

 This is how Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan, Education Supervisor II of CHED IV-A, described teachers in the new normal as she delivered a message during the third of a seven-part webinar entitled “Challenges of the New Normal: Cavite HEIs Face and Learn as One” facilitated by the Special Committee on Flexible Learning Arrangement in Cavite Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, Cavite State University President and Chair of the Special Committee, encouraged participants to collaborate and share best and innovative practices in dealing with the challenges the academe is facing.

 The said webinar series runs every Friday from September 25 to November 6, 2020 and the third entitled “Creating and Maintaining Database, Blogs and Websites” was conducted on October 9 and hosted by CvSU.

 Mr. Mark Philip M. Sy, University MIS, and Mr. Russel L. Villacarlos, University Webmaster, served as resource persons for the said activity attended by 508 participants from various HEIs.

 For his topic “Importance of Databases in the New Normal”, Mr. Sy discussed the importance of database to improve data management, to innovate business processes and to serve as inputs in better decision-making. He also gave emphasis to the goal of transforming the data into information, knowledge and insight until it becomes wisdom which when applied will produce better outputs. In addition, he oriented the participants with learning management systems like Moodle and Schoology and applications which can be used for teaching in the new normal. These include Discord, Google Meet, Zoom, Webex and MS Teams. Meanwhile, Mr. Villacarlos, in his topic “Homepage: A Web Development Primer”, shared how blogs can be used to promote organizations. He also showed a demonstration on how to make a simple blogsite using wix.com.

 The Special Committee on Flexible Learning Arrangement in Cavite HEIs in charge of the said program is composed of Dr. Hernando D. Robles, CvSU President, as Chair with members: Dr. Mirriam Narbarte, Adventist University of the Philippines; Dr. Marcon Espino, Far East University – Cavite; Dr. Pacita Rosario Aquino (represented by Dr. Josefina Rint), City College of Tagaytay; Dr. Juanito Cabanias, De La Salle Medical and Health Sciences Institute; Dr. Tess Pilapil, Lyceum of the Philippines University – Cavite; and Dr. Marco Saez, De La Salle University – Dasmariñas. Team from CHED IV-A Regional Office include Dr. Amelia Biglete, Regional Director; Dr. Judith Mary Ann Chan,  Education Supervisor; and Ms. Lucila Ontal, CHED Focal Staff for the said webinar. CvSU Webinar Team include: Dr. Ma. Agnes Nuestro; Dr. Ammie Ferrer; and Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan; Ms. Adora Joy Plete; Mr. Marlon R. Pereña; Ms. Emeline C. Guevarra; Mr. Alfredo Venzon; Ms.Julie Ann Lontoc, Mr. Roderick Rupido, Mr. Antonio Cinto; Ms. Ezra Marie Ramos; Mr. Francis Tolentino; Mr. Jefferson Rodriguez; Mr. Dindo Marges; and Mr. Anzley Crusis.

 Other topics to be discussed in the said webinar series are: Managing Stress, Data Privacy Law, Use of Other Technologies; and Plagiarism and Copyright Laws.

 Poster for the third webinar

----- DOC | CHED, CvSU bring 70k MASKS to Cavite | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/09/ched-cvsu-bring-70k-masks-to-cavite/ | 2020-10-09 -----
Partnership between the Commission on Higher Education and Cavite State University brought 70 thousand washable facemasks to various communities in Cavite through Project MASKS which stands for “ M anufacture and Distribution of A dequate Facemasks for the S afety of K ey Personnel and Various Frontliner S ”.

 This three-month CHED-funded project provided additional support to the existing efforts of national and local agencies in its fight against COVID-19. With CvSU as the implementing agency, it contributed in increasing the capacity to prevent further spread of the virus through the use of facemasks distributed not only to the frontliners but also the vulnerable sectors like senior citizens and children.

 It also offered  job opportunities to community members whose livelihoods were greatly affected because of the quarantine. Thirty local tailors who were tapped to produce thousands of facemasks were able to raise income for their family's needs while also contributing in their community's fight against the pandemic. Meanwhile, eight more individuals who were displaced utility workers were hired to help in the packaging. With them are other volunteers headed by the University officials who assisted in placing the said items in boxes before the actual distribution.

 The project also aimed to increase awareness on the proper use of washable facemasks through a simple information material attached to every piece of mask distributed. A social media page devoted for MASKS also helped in engaging the community to be participants of this partnership.

 CvSU President Hernando Robles and other University officials help in packaging 
 Employees also serve as volunteers in packaging 
 

 Barangay staff receive finished masks to be distributed to the residents

----- DOC | CHED, CEIT innovate dispensers against COVID-19 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/09/ched-ceit-innovate-dispensers-against-covid-19/ | 2020-10-09 -----
We innovate as one. 

 The first batch of foot pedal-controlled alcohol dispensers and hand wash station prototypes developed by Cavite State University- College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT) was unveiled last September 28.

 The said innovation was part of project headed by Dr. David L. Cero, dean of CEIT, Dr. Edwin R. Arboleda, CEIT research coordinator, and Engr. Joseph JC Ortiz, and Electronics Engineering alumnus and was funded by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED).

 Both innovations use foot pedals to ensure minimizing contact compared with other models that require the use of hands and may prevent the further spread of COVID-19. The alcohol dispenser uses the foot pedal to control  the lever which squeezes the nozzle of  commercially  available alcohol  dispenser. This low-cost model is comparable to existing commercial models but with an advantage on durability and robustness because of the materials used. Meanwhile, the second model also needs plumbing installation for source of water and for draining the used water and soap. Both models will initially be deployed in various offices around Cavite State University – Main Campus.

 “CvSU  and  CEIT  will  help  in  anyway   we  can.    The  whole  CvSU community,   the admin, faculty,  students and  alumni   are  willing  to  volunteer  and   contribute in  the  fight  against  COVID-19”, said Dr. Cero.

 The Development Team are open to extending help to those interested with these developed dispensers. They may be contacted through: ceit@cvsu.edu.ph . (ER Arboleda) 

 CvSU officials during the unveiling of the prototypes
(from left) Dr. David Cero, CEIT dean; Dr. Camilo Polinga, VP for Administrative and Support Services; Dr. Leyma Cero, VP for Planning and Development; Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, VP for Academic Affairs; Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President; Dr. Edwin Arboleda, CEIT research coordinator 
 A closer look at the prototypes

----- DOC | All students enrolled in NSTP for this First Semester, SY 2020- 2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/01/all-students-enrolled-in-nstp-for-this-first-semester-sy-2020-2021/ | 2020-10-01 -----
ATTENTION

 All students enrolled in NSTP for this First Semester, SY 2020- 2021

There will be an enlistment of NSTP (CWTS, ROTC) from October 7- 18, 2020. The Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) will send you through email the google link for the enlistment and the information about NSTP before you enlist to CWTS or ROTC.

 If you will not be able to receive email message, here is the google link for the enlistment (NSTP- CWTS or ROTC) and the information about NSTP before you decide where to enlist.

 Thank you very much.

 https://forms.gle/9VhFnRCKsd6bu8oi7

----- DOC | IPRA @ 23 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/10/01/ipra-23/ | 2020-10-01 -----
Cavite State University supports the celebration of the 23rd year of the founding anniversary of Indigenous Peoples Rights Act No. 8371 and the Indigenous Peoples Month with the theme “Correcting Historical Injustices for Indigenous Peoples' Rights and Welfare”. 

 
 Let us always support our “kapwa” from the different parts of the country. 

 
 #CvSUsupports 

 #IPRAat23 

 #IPMonth 

 #NCIPcalabarzon

----- DOC | Advisory: To all students and parents | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/30/advisory-to-all-students-and-parents/ | 2020-09-30 -----
The University acknowledges student initiatives and encourages development of student leadership as it has been doing in the past years through various activities led by student organizations. Such activities are expected to follow the school policies and organizations' set rules through their Constitution and By-Laws (CBL). It has to be noted that a recognition program is being conducted every year to present the official student organizations and their set of officers.

 

 

 
 With this, we wish to inform you that all student organizations including Central Student Government (CSG) have already ended their terms of office and positions last July 31, 2020. It is in accordance with their respective CBL stating that their term of office is good for one (1) school year only. Even the election of new officers shall be based from what is being stipulated in their CBL. Considering this, the Central Student Government (CSG) election shall be conducted from the COMELEC's initiatives which were formulated last February 2020. This means that all officers last SY 2019-2020 have no jurisdiction this First Semester, SY 2020-2021 and the use of the organization's name and their position beyond the said date in any transaction is a misrepresentation.

 

 

 
 To address this, the Office of Student Affairs and Services is scheduled to conduct a virtual leadership webinar cum recognition of student organizations on October 2020. This means that there will be new set of officers this October for SY 2020- 2021 to ensure that aside from student representation, students are also given opportunity to develop their potentials and enhance community spirit even in the virtual environment considering the health crisis the nation is facing.

 

 

 
 Kindly wait for details and further announcement.

 

 

 
 Thank you very much.

----- DOC | MR GAD KATROPA spearheads Partners in GAD | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/30/mr-gad-katropa-spearheads-partners-in-gad/ | 2020-09-30 -----
4-part webinar on RP-FP 

 Speakers from the core group of CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center''s Men's Responsibility on Gender and Development KAlalakihang Tapat sa Responsibilidad at Obligasyon sa PAmilya ( MR GAD KATROPA) spearheaded month-long  webinar series on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning (RP-FP) in cooperation with the Commission on Population and Development Region IV CALABARZON. Dubbed as PARTNERS IN GAD (Partnership in AwaReness TraiNing for Engaged and Responsible Stakeholders in Gender And Development) , the said activity was conducted every Friday from August 7 to August 28, 2020.

 The webinar series was attended by 80 GAD advocates and focal point persons (18 males, 62 females) from various sectors of both private and government agencies coming from CALABARZON. This activity outlined the RP-FP Program's general objectives that deal with the issues related to sexual and reproductive health, including fertility and family planning concerns. It primarily aims to help couples realize their desired timing, spacing, and the number of children according to their socio-economic, emotional, and psychological capacity.

 Among the topics discussed during the technical sessions were: 1) Nurturing Harmonious Relationships in the Family; 2) Responsible Parenthood; 3) Importance and Benefits of Family Planning and Decision Making for Couples; and 4) Family Planning. This webinar is part of the training and extension project of the GAD-RC. It served as an avenue for the CvSU GAD Resource Center's continuing program to mainstream various gender issues, women's and men's involvement in equal roles, needs, opportunities, interests, and responsibilities in the changing world. (King David J. Agreda) 

 Webinar Series on Responsible Parenthood and Family Planning Promotional poster 
 Participants of the webinar conducted via Zoom 
 Participants of the webinar conducted via Zoom 
 Participants of the webinar conducted via Zoom 
 Participants of the webinar conducted via Zoom

----- DOC | CvSU GAD-RC conducts orientation on inclusive CBDRRM | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/30/cvsu-gad-rc-conducts-orientation-on-inclusive-cbdrrm/ | 2020-09-30 -----
In partnership with the Provincial Government of Cavite – Persons with Disability Affairs Office and Center for Disaster Preparedness, CvSU-Gender and Development Resource Center conducted the webinar on “Orientation on Inclusive Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction and Management” last July 30, 2020 via Zoom.

 Dubbed as “ KASALI TAYO !  Orientation on Inclusive Community-based Disaster Risk Reduction and Management”, the webinar was attended by 33 female and 22 male participants composed of municipal and city Persons with Disability (PWD) Federation presidents, local focal persons on PWD Programs and Disability Affairs Officers, LGU and PDAO staff of the Province of Cavite.

 Resource persons include Ms. Mayfourth D. Luneta, Deputy Executive Director of CDP, who presented the Philippine Disaster Situationer that served as her opening salvo in introducing the concept of Community Based Disaster Risk Reduction Management; Ms. Eena Geslaine A. Barrun, National Focal Point for the Global Network of Civil Society Organizations for Disaster Reduction (GNDR), who explained the salient features of Republic Act 10121 emphasizing that the said law intends to intensify disaster risk reduction management in the Philippines;  Ms. Jocelyn Samson, Program Associate of CDP, who discussed the different terminologies in DRRM; Ms. Jelyn Gealone, Project Officer of Project Inclusive Data Management System (IDMS), who gave an overview on the different laws on disability; and Engr. Darlito Palermo, NAPC Council Member, PWD Sector Region XI, who discussed the current trends and issues affecting persons with disability. He further emphasized that including PWDs in the planning stage of DRRM will equip responders with the knowledge on how to respond and assist them when disaster strikes.

 The webinar served as an eye-opener on the importance of ensuring that “no one is left behind” in times of disaster. CvSU administrators also participated with Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, Director for Extension Services, who welcomed the participants and Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic, Dean of CCJ, who delivered the closing remarks.   (Susan G. Tan) 

 Orientation on Inclusive CBDRRM Promotional poster 
 Photo taken after the activity via Zoom 
 Photo taken after the activity via Zoom

----- DOC | CoN holds 1st int'l webinar on health info | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/30/con-holds-1st-intl-webinar-on-health-info/ | 2020-09-30 -----
It takes a collaborative effort to make one great leap. Through partnerships, College of Nursing was able to make it as it hosted its first international webinar last August 29, 2020.

 With the support from the University administration headed by CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, the Beta Nu Delta Nursing Society for Humanity, Filipino Nursing Diaspora Network and the CvSU College of Nursing led by the dean, Dr. Evelyn M. Del Mundo, the activity was able to share with the participants the changing developments and updates in providing quality health care education among all the nurses and other allied health care professionals around the world.

 “Correct information can save lives, misinformation and fake news kill,” Dr. Robles said in his inspirational message with emphasis on the relevance of the webinar with the COVID-19 pandemic the world is currently facing.

 Dr. John Robert Bautista, a Bullard Research Fellow at the School of Information, University of Texas at Austin served as the guest speaker for the said activity. He presented and shared one of his funded researches which helped him pursue his post-doctoral degree in Communication Science at the Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. With his numerous scholarly achievements, both in local and international engagements, Dr. Bautista remained humble and very enthusiast in helping and mentoring health care professionals to produce research innovation initiatives that address problems in the allied health community. One particular example is the so-called infodemic or surge of either good or bad information.

 As the world comes to grip with the effects of this global health crisis, his research work highlighted that the battle is not only with the allied health care professionals which combat the virus but also with the social media users who are dealing with misinformation. He emphasized that incorrect and misleading facts and information being posted and shared in any social networking site worldwide can put vulnerable individuals in danger.

 Rolando P. Antonio, college research coordinator who served as one of the reactors in the said webinar, suggested the use of conceptualized models by Dr. Bautista in correcting health misinformation in social media to produce more scientific and evidence-based nursing practices in relation to patient care and to teach the nursing students be more online literate, accurate and responsible in general.

 Meanwhile, Ms. Karen Louela Rint and Mr. Jerome Babate, forum moderators, facilitated the Q & A portion.

 “The practical tips can be short term or long term. Short term is that, as we social media users and as health care professionals, we can actually start with our community in terms of our relative- the use of group chat that sometimes tend to post health misinformation. We may want to deal with them first before we can go public, to share more correct information so that instead of false information, the corrected ones will be seen by many. But for the long term tip, we need to emphasize on health literacy. Unfortunately, literacy in the Philippines is not that high,” answered Dr. Bautista when asked about his practical tips and proposed solutions for managing fake medical information.

 The challenge is now on the application and implementation of the research outcome that is recommended also to be embedded in the academe as a special topic in teaching health education for nursing and other allied health courses.

 Moreover, recognizing this notable undertaking is just a beginning of other collaborations in the future with the prestigious organization, headed by Prof. Violeta Lopez and the Cavite State University – College of Nursing since both value the trust of its constituents in the academe and in nursing profession. Future activities also aim to inspire medical frontliners in fulfilling their mission and vision imbued with the necessary knowledge and skills with confidence and integrity to provide quality health care services to the global community. ( Hazel Joyce L. Guiao ) . 

 Poster for the activity 
(Source: Filipino Nursing Diaspora Network FB page)

----- DOC | Advisory | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/19/advisory-2/ | 2020-09-19 -----
Please be informed that all University online services such as student portal, e-learning, and e-library, are still not available as of today, September 19, 2020, due to a persistent problem with the University's Internet Service Provider (ISP). 

 We have coordinated with PLDT and closely monitoring the situation. 

 Sorry for the inconvenience.

----- DOC | Schedule of college/campus virtual orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/06/schedule-of-college-campus-virtual-orientation/ | 2020-09-06 -----
Please follow the official Facebook pages of your colleges/campuses and don't forget to attend the scheduled virtual orientation.

 

 
 A. COLLEGE VIRTUAL ORIENTATION

 
 1. College of Nursing (CON)- September 7, 2020, 8 am

 
 2. College of Economics, Management and Development Studies (CEMDS)- September 8, 2020, 2 pm

 
 3. College of Education (CED)- September 9, 2020, 8 am (Teacher Education Department- BEE, BTLED, BECEd, BSNED, and BSE), 1 pm (HEVTED- BSHM and BSTM)

 
 4. College of Criminal Justice (CCJ)- September 11, 2020, 9 am

 
 5. College of Sports, Physical Education and (CSPEAR)- September 14, 2020, 1 pm

 
 6. College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT)- on-going until next week; done by curricular program and being handled by the department chair. CEIT students will be informed by the Department Chair where they belong.

 
 7. College of Agriculture, Food, Environment, and Natural Resources (CAFENR)- to be announced by the college next week

 
 8. College of Arts and Science (CAS)-August 18, 19 and 20, 2020

 
 9. College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS)- September 4, 2020

 

 
 B. CAMPUS VIRTUAL ORIENTATION

 1. Silang Campus- September 7, 2020, 9 am

 
 2. Imus Campus- September 10, 2020, 9 am

 
 3. Cavite City Campus- September 14, 2020, 1 pm

 
 4. Naic Campus- first year students- September 9, 2020

 – by program- September 11, 2020

 
 5. Carmona Campus- September 1, 3 and 4, 2020

 
 6. Bacoor Campus- September 3, 2020

 
 7. Tanza Campus- September 5, 2020

 
 8. Trece Martires City Campus- September 5, 2020

 
 9. General Trias City Campus- September 5, 2020

 
 10. CCAT Campus- to be announced by the campus

 
 Again, please visit the campus website or campus FB page for additional announcements/changes.

 
 Thank you and keep safe.

----- DOC | To all the students and parents | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/06/to-all-the-students-and-parents/ | 2020-09-06 -----
ADVISORY 

 

 
 To all the students and parents,

 

 
 Cavite State University, like any other academic institutions, government agencies and private entities in the country and the world, is experiencing a great challenge brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is a test to the ability and preparedness of not only the officials of the government and the University, but also of the students and their families. This has affected our daily activities, our jobs and even the process of teaching and learning.

 
 This coming Monday, September 7, 2020, the University and all its branches around the province will start the semester. Flexible learning modalities approved by the Board of Regents by virtue of Resolution No. 18 dated August 6, 2020 will be implemented.

 
 Flexible learning modalities is a combination of both online/offline, modular and other methods of delivering instruction to enhance students' knowledge. This is the first time it will be used by the University. We know that no one can be considered yet as an expert in this flexible learning in the midst of the pandemic, hence, we seek for your utmost patience and support.

 
 For parents, please do not solely depend on the efforts of the teachers and the University for the learning of the students. In the same way, teachers must also be more considerate of the situation of their students. Partnership is what we need.

 
 Rest assured that the University will do its best to continue giving quality education like before. Trainings and orientations for teachers in relation to innovative ways of facilitating learning, including the preparation of modules and the use of the free learning management system, are almost done.

 
 We have also improved the internet infrastructure with enhanced bandwidth and the use of other technologies that will help the students as they gain new knowledge and skills this semester. With the help of the Department of Information and Communications Technology, the University will be providing free “wi-fi connection” in all its branches. DICT has placed the needed infrastructure which is expected to be used this September.

 
 With all the challenges we are facing, the University is once again asking for cooperation from all sectors – the teachers, the staff, the students, the parents and the local government and all its relevant branches – as we continue pursuing quality education amidst the pandemic. Meanwhile, the University will strive to bring joy in the students' campus life even with the uncertainties brought by this situation.

 
 To all the students, do not lose hope, but instead, study hard. Focus on the lessons to be facilitated by the teachers and we will do our best to support you.

 
 Despite this situation, we want to warmly welcome you to the Academic Year 2020-2021.

 
 In God's merciful grace, “we will heal and learn as one”.

----- DOC | Orientation and Reorientation Program 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/04/orientation-and-reorientation-program-2020/ | 2020-09-04 -----
Orientation and Reorientation Program 2020 for CvSU students and parents 

 

 WHERE TO BEGIN?

 

 
 We will all start with this! 

 
 This Sunday, September 6, 2020, at 2 pm, let us all watch with our fellow CvSUeños (both old and new students) as we take part in this year's Orientation and Reorientation via FB Live! 

 
 It is such a challenging semester but we will overcome together.

 
 See you on Sunday!

----- DOC | Payment of Fees thru Landbank OnColl | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/09/03/payment-of-fees-thru-landbank-oncoll/ | 2020-09-03 -----
ADVISORY 

 
 For students who need to pay certain fees, please follow the procedure for over-the-counter transactions through Landbank.

 
 1. Proceed to any Land Bank Branch near you (NCR & Region IV A & B).

 
 2. Fill out the OnColl Payment Slip using the following details:

 

 
 Account Name CAVSU OnColl

 Account Number 1502-2220-03

 Reference 1 Your Name

 Reference 2 Student Number

 Reference 3 Campus code and Nature of Payment

 01-Main Campus

 02-Silang Campus

 03-Carmona Campus

 04-Bacoor Campus

 05-Trece

 06-Tanza

 07-GenTri

 
 Service charge amounting to P25.00 per transaction is imposed by Land Bank.

 

 
 3. After payment, email the picture or scanned copy of the validated deposit slip to cashiersoffice@cvsu.edu.ph.

 
 4. After verification of payment, the Cashier's Office will send the scanned copy of the Official Receipt.

 
 Payment thru bank transfer or online transfer of any kind is not allowed.

 
 Thank you.

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on August 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2021/06/11/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-august-2020/ | 2020-08-29 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Newly Appointed University Personnel on August 2020 
 Payment of Fees thru Landbank OnColl

----- DOC | DISCLAIMER | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/08/20/disclaimer-2/ | 2020-08-20 -----
We would like to inform all incoming first year students that the so-called “University First Year Student Council” using Laya at Diwa image in its Facebook page is NOT AN OFFICIAL student organization recognized by CvSU.

 The University has the Central Student Government and student councils being recognized every academic year but their terms had already ended and the new officers are to be recognized after a legitimate process as approved by the Office of Student Affairs. Hence, we would like to make it clear that “University First Year – Student Council” activities are not officially approved by the University. Membership to such is voluntary but not recognized by CvSU.

 Please be guided accordingly.

 Thank you.

----- DOC | DISCLAIMER | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/08/20/disclaimer/ | 2020-08-20 -----
It has come to our attention that a certain “CvSU JAMbagan 2020”, a fund-raising activity for the benefit of CvSU students who are in need, is set to be conducted as an online concert this coming August 29.

 While donation drives are helpful in preparing for the classes this September, we would like to inform you that this activity is NOT OFFICIAL, hence the use of the names of CvSU, Central Student Government and CvSU Musikeros is not allowed. Every student organization is recognized every academic year, hence, the use of such during vacation and while students are still enrolling is considered NOT OFFICIAL. Any fundraising activity from “not yet recognized” organizations do not have “official permission” from the University.

 A letter dated August 17, 2020 was sent by the Office of Student Affairs to the former vice president of the Central Student Government clearly explaining that the term of office of CSG officers has ended last July 31, 2020 as emphasized in the CSG-CBL, Article XII, Section 4.

 With the good intention of the activity, the organizers are given the following options: 1) to do it this coming First Semester, AY 2020-2021 after the recognition of student organizations; or 2) to do it as an individual/group fund-raising but without the use of CvSU's name and the said organizations.

 We promote bayanihan in this time of crisis and we are in support of initiatives that extend assistance to the students but it has to be made clear to participating individuals if the activity is officially from CvSU or a privately-organized donation drive.

 Thank you.

----- DOC | To all the parents and students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/08/14/advisory-to-all-the-parents-and-students/ | 2020-08-14 -----
ADVISORY 

 To all the parents and students,

 We would like inform you that all the campuses of Cavite State University will open the classes this coming September 7, 2020. Because of the pandemic, no face-to-face classes will be conducted and this type of teaching may only be done on the second semester (January 2021), depending on the decision of IATF, CHED and the LGU.

 With the flexible mode of teaching, a combination of online and offline classes (through modules) will be implemented. No class will be held as purely online. This is to give opportunities for other students who may not have the capacity to participate in the said mode. All of these measures will be explained further before classes start through the orientations.

 AGAIN, THE UNIVERSITY WILL NOT IMPLEMENT A PURELY ONLINE MODE OF TEACHING.

 Thank you and we hope for the safety of everyone.

 
 PAUNAWA 

 Sa mga Magulang at Mag-aaral:

 Nais po naming ipabatid sa inyong lahat na ang Cavite State University at mga sangay nito sa buong probinsya ay magbubukas ng klase sa ika-7 ng Setyembre 2020.

 Dahil sa pandemya, wala pong magaganap na face-to-face na klase sa buong semester. Maaari lamang magkaroon ng ganitong paraan ng pagtuturo sa darating na ikalawang semestre (Enero 2021) subalit ito ay nakabatay pa rin sa rekomendasyon ng ng IATF, CHED at LGU.

 Ang pamantasan ay gagamit ng flexible na pamamaraan sa pagtuturo. Ito po ay kumbinasyon ng ONLINE at OFFLINE o sa pamamagitan ng MODULES.

 Wala pong klase na gagawin na purong ONLINE. Ito po ay upang mabigyan ng pagkakataon ang mga mga mag-aaral na walang kapasidad sa nasabing pamamaraan.

 Ang lahat po ng panuntunang ito ay muli naming ipaliliwanag sa inyo bago magpasukan sa pamamagitan ng mga oryentasyon.

 MULI PO NAMING IPINABABATID NA ANG PAMANTASAN AY HINDI GAGAMIT NG PURONG ONLINE NA PAMAMARAAN.

 Maraming salamat po at manatili po sanang ligtas ang lahat.

----- DOC | Partners in GAD | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/08/04/partners-in-gad/ | 2020-08-04 -----
Isang mapagpalang araw sa inyong lahat!

 Inihahandog ng GAD Resource Center simula ngayong buwan ng Agosto ang PARTNERS IN GAD (Partnership in AwaReness TraiNing for Engaged and Responsible Stakeholders in Gender And Development) na naglalayong makapaghatid ng kaalaman tungkol sa konsepto, mga isyu, at mga batas patungkol sa GAD (Sex and Gender, Gender-Fair Language, VAWC, Sexual Harassment, at iba pa). Ang mga ito ay ihahatid namin sa inyo sa pamamagitan ng mga webinar.

 Ang unang handog namin sa inyo ay isang usaping pang pamilya. Kaya tara na usap tayo mga KATROPA!

 Para makasama namin, mag-rehistro sa link na ito:

 https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfBhHFEZlokrb8LXnThy48_r1cSCrKcJuriNg6k8TNO2qv98Q/viewform?fbclid=IwAR0HSL-1AC8j76A0ri_ynLZzywFKY9m-iidMj_tpj2bULABFJKNMXCjpuJQ 

 Tara! Kitakits!

----- DOC | Cavite Under MECQ | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/08/03/cavite-under-mecq/ | 2020-08-03 -----
ADVISORY

 Please be advised that Cavite has been placed again under the modified enhanced community quarantine (MECQ) to further prevent the spread of COVID-19. In this regard, the University shall revert to providing skeleton workforce starting this Tuesday, August 4 to 18, 2020 .

 Meanwhile, all Physical Plant Services personnel shall continue to complete the 7-day quarantine extension until Aug 10, 2020 before he/she can report for work if they belong to the skeleton workforce of their respective units.

 All other employees shall be on work-from-home arrangement and shall come to the University only if needed and upon approval of the Crisis Manager and/or the President. With this, all University transactions within the said period shall be purely online.

 Please be reminded that all employees are enjoined to observe proper health protocol both inside and outside the campus.

 For widest dissemination.

 Thank you.

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on July 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/30/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-july-2020/ | 2020-07-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Teacher Education Department 
 The Department of Management of the CEMDS is in need of Instructors

----- DOC | Advisory for all employees, both skeleton and work-from-home | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/23/advisory-for-all-employees-both-skeleton-and-work-from-home/ | 2020-07-23 -----
All employees, both skeleton and work-from-home, are reminded to strictly observe health protocols at all times. Those with cold, cough or even slight fever shall not report for work. Employees who feel sick, particularly those who had close contact to COVID-19 patients outside the University, shall immediately report to Dr. Romeo Sanchez, University Physician, or the nearest Rural Health Unit for guidance.

 Self-monitoring and self-restraining are necessary in caring for ourselves and others as well.

 Thank you.

----- DOC | Announcement: Admission for SY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/07/announcement-admission-for-sy-2020-2021/ | 2020-07-07 -----
CAVITE STATE UNIVERITY- MAIN 

 Announcement: Admission for SY2020-2021 

 Out of 35,297 applicants who registered online, only 7,460 applicants can be admitted in the Main Campus due its limited carrying capacity.

 List of Qualified Applicants for College Admission 

 First Semester, SY 2020-2021 

 
 You can confirm your slot beginning July 8 – 19, 2020. Failure to confirm your slot within the given period will mean forfeiture of your application for the course. 

 
 
 For those qualified applicants who have already confirmed their slot, kindly wait for the registration process that will start on July 27, 2020.

 
 
 For those qualified applicants who are in the waiting list* – you are advised to confirm your slot beginning July 20-26, 2020.

 
 *applicants in the waiting list can confirm their intention to wait for vacant slots in their respective courses. Applicants in the waiting list do not have any confirmed slots but will only be given once a qualified applicant in their program fail to confirm their slot.

 Procedure for confirmation of your slot:  

 
 Using your registered email account, log-in to the Online Student Admission System – https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/

 
 
 Go to the ADMISSION RESULT section. Update your personal information.

 
 
 Read the Notice of Admission (NOA) stating the course that you are qualified to enrol in

 
 
 Answer the survey form for internet connectivity and ICT readiness

 
 
 Click the “CONFIRM” button to confirm slot

 
 
 Qualified applicants of the following courses –  BS Hospitality Management, BS Tourism Management, BS Medical Technology, and BS Nursing are subject for College Interview. Please confirm your  slot for the interview  by undergoing the same procedure as posted above and wait for the announcement of the respective Colleges on how they will inform/contact you for interview.

 
 
 
 
 College 
 Course 

 
 Ø  College of Nursing 
 BS Medical Technology

 BS Nursing 

 
 Ø  College of Education 
 BS Tourism Management

 BS Hospitality Management 

 
 
   

 Procedure after confirming the slot: 

 
 Physical and Medical procedure is temporarily suspended

 
 
 For those qualified applicants who have already undergone the medical process, please keep your medical results and wait for further announcements.

 
 
 Qualified applicants who have already confirmed their slot will only need to wait for an email from the Office of the University Registrar. The registration process will start on July 27, 2020 . No further action from the applicant is needed upon confirmation of the slot, unless instructed by OSAS or the University Registrar.

 
   

 
 After the Office of the University Registrar has registered the applicant, an email containing the confirmation, and student number along with a TEMPORARY student portal password will be sent to the applicant.

 
 
 For the meantime, requirements submitted to OSAS will be used by the University Registrar. In the future, the University Registrar will ask for the complete original requirements of the confirmed applicants

 
 For inquiries, please send an email to admission@cvsu.edu.ph .

 
 
 
 Concern 
 Subject of the email 

 
 Forgotten the email address used in the registration? Kindly send a copy of your application slip as proof of identity 
 Control number – forgotten email account

 Ex. 99999 – Forgotten email account 

 
 Any misspellings in the name?

 Kindly send a copy of your application slip as proof of identity 
 Control number – Change of Name

 Ex. 99999 – Change of Name 

 
 
 LIST OF QUALIFIED APPLICANTS FOR COLLEGE ADMISSION 1ST SEM SY 2020-2021 CVSU

----- DOC | Enrollment for Teacher Certificate Program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/03/enrollment-for-teacher-certificate-program/ | 2020-07-03 -----
The University is now accepting enrollees for the Teacher Education Program (TCP) .

 College of Education – Teacher Education Department is a gateway in pursuing lifelong learning and a partner in nurturing learners for those interested to be professional teachers.

 For initial evaluation, applicants must send a copy of their scanned TOR to ced@cvsu.edu.ph 

 TCP is a non-degree program designed for individuals who have completed any Bachelor's degree in any field who intend to teach at the secondary level.

----- DOC | CvSU GAD Advocates participate in IPC WE CaN seminar | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/03/cvsu-gad-advocates-participate-in-ipc-we-can-seminar/ | 2020-07-03 -----
The Institute of Philippine Culture (IPC) together with the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council for Health Research and Development (DOST-PCHRD) led a three-hour webinar series entitled “ Ako at ang COVID-19: Ang Nakatagong Pandemya ng Karahasan Laban sa Kababaihan” last June 17, 2020. 

 The session was focused on how the quarantine affected prevalence of domestic violence among Filipino households. It also tackled the current issues and conditions of gender-based violence and cases on violence against women  in the Philippines.

 The activity was jointly participated by 304 different GAD advocates and experts from various units of academic institutions, private sectors, and local government units. In addition, the webinar gave inputs about the launched campaign named Lunas Collective, a feminist, inclusive chat service that runs on the compassion of volunteers — a safe online space where people seeking support related to gender-based violence and reproductive health can expect that they will be heard.

 The founder and one of the speakers, Asst. Prof. Sabrina Laya Gacad from the University of the Philippines, stressed the importance of having a support system that allows the victims and survivors of different gender-based violence to protect and to know their rights. Lunas Collective has since partnered with Likhaan Center for Women's Health in referring clients for reproductive health consultations, and the Psychological Association of the Philippines for training. It also has the staunch support of the University of the Philippines' Center for Women's and Gender Studies and the Department of Women and Development Studies in its initiative.

 
On the other hand, Dr. Nathalie Africa – Verceles, Director for Center for Women's and Gender Studies of University of the Philippines, talked about her expertise with regards to domestic violence among Filipino households and the possible coping mechanisms of the victims and survivors. The webinar was facilitated by Dr. Enrique Leviste, director, Institute of Philippine Culture (IPC ). (KDAgreda) 

 IPC WE Can Seminar Promotional poster

----- DOC | GAD-RC Conducts Refresher Training on MR GAD KATROPA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/07/03/gad-rc-conducts-refresher-training-on-mr-gad-katropa/ | 2020-07-03 -----
GAD Resource Center, in partnership with Commission on Population and Development Region IV Calabarzon, conducted a Refresher Training on Men's Responsibility on Gender and Development KAlalakihang Tapat sa Responsibilidad at Obligasyon sa PAmilya (MR GAD KATROPA) via Zoom last June 18, 2020 with 10 female and 8 male participants.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC, discussed the overview of the refresher's course. She pointed out that this was primarily conducted to re-educate and re-qualify GAD Coordinators as MR GAD KATROPA Advocates and that the expected output for this special training will be the series of online trainings/webinars on Responsible Parenthood, Reproductive Health Care and Family Planning to the community as an extension project of the GAD-RC.

 Ms. Marilyn F. Ogaya, Assistant Regional Director – Designate, POPCOM Region IV discussed the Overview of the RP-FP Manual, Nurturing Harmonious Relationships in the Family, and Responsible Parenting. Ms. Ogaya also discussed the safety measures against diseases in line with the COVID-19 pandemic as part of the responsibilities of the home management.

 Ms. Charmaine E. Sarabia, Planning Officer I, POPCOM Region IV discussed the Importance and Benefits of Family Planning and Decision-making for Couples and Family Planning. Ms. Sarabia also discussed the family planning myths and misconceptions.

 

 Participants who attended the activity thru Zoom

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on June 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/30/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-june-2020/ | 2020-06-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 GAD-RC Conducts the 2nd Quarter GAD TWG Meeting 
 GAD-RC Conducts Refresher Training on MR GAD KATROPA

----- DOC | GAD-RC Conducts the 2nd Quarter GAD TWG Meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/gad-rc-conducts-the-2nd-quarter-gad-twg-meeting/ | 2020-06-25 -----
GAD Resource Center conducted its 2 nd Quarter GAD TWG Meeting via Zoom on May 26, 2020. The highlight of the meeting was compliance to PCW MC No. 2020-03 which calls for adjustment in the GAD Plan and Budget to be realigned to the mandates of PCW in addressing gender issues brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic.

 GAD Coordinators were asked to provide the data on deployed personnel and project/program beneficiaries of the different colleges, campuses, and units of the university during the ECQ. They were also reminded to ensure that GAD is integrated in all instruction, research and extension activities of their respective colleges and campuses.

 Plan of activities of KATROPA and MOVE were also discussed as it was noted that there was an increase in VAWC cases during the ECQ.

 Attendees in the meeting conducted via Zoom

----- DOC | CvSU GAD advocates participate in CTA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/cvsu-gad-advocates-participate-in-cta/ | 2020-06-25 -----
One male and 9 female GAD advocates from different colleges, campuses, and units of Cavite State University attended a webinar session entitled “Conversations through Art (CTA): Tapping Various Creative Modalities for Intervention, Growth, and Transformation” organized by the University of the Philippines Center for Women's and Gender Studies (UPCWGS), in partnership with Art Ventures and Advocacy Network, last May 14, 2020.

 The fifth session discussed topics about Women, Gender, and Film. It celebrated the brilliance and remarkable artistry of Filipino filmmakers, and how their works contribute to changing the world views and perceives women's and gender issues.

 Various lecture presentations were given and facilitated by reputable speakers to promote arts for social change. Film directors Antoninette Jadaone and Sigrid Andrea Bernardo gave lecture on social responsibilities in fighting the high prevalence of gender differences and stereotypes in Philippine Cinema. They have also shared their struggles and success in conquering independent to mainstream films. Filmmaker, Samantha Lee discussed her advocacy for better representation of women and LGBTQ+ community in Philippine Cinema. She had pointed out the importance of closing the gap of gender inequality in Philippine Cinema which is considered to be a powerful community medium representation. The challenges in film binary representation were also tackled during the lecture.

 The three-hour seminar workshop was moderated by Ms. Tez Cruz, founder of Feminist Media Lab (FeMMeLAB). The webinar was attended by 124 participants from various academes, GAD Advocates, Film enthusiasts and Filmmakers. (KDAgreda) 

 Conversations through Art: Women, Gender, and Film Promotional poster

----- DOC | AAs, students receive food packs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/aas-students-receive-food-packs/ | 2020-06-25 -----
Before the semester officially ended, CvSU through the Office of the Vice President for Administrative and Support Services assisted students stranded in dormitories and apartments through the weekly food pack distribution.

 The fourth wave of deliveries had additional fresh produce in its 196 food packs, 189 for the fifth distribution and 186 food packs for its last round as students go back to their permanent residences around Cavite.

 OVPASS also spearheaded the distribution of 107 food packs to Administrative Aide 1 employees of the University being one of the groups most affected by the crisis.

 Most of those reporting as skeleton workforce during the community quarantine came from OVPASS headed by Dr. Camilo A. Polinga who also served as the crisis manager of the University.

 Administrative aides receive food packs 
 Administrative aides receive food packs

----- DOC | NCRDEC's Warm Mugs launched | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/ncrdecs-warm-mugs-launched/ | 2020-06-25 -----
Recognizing the hardwork of agency-based utility workers, the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) launched “Warm Mugs”, a relief assistance that called for monetary donation, purchased goods for distribution and delivered food packs to the said target beneficiaries.

 Total collection from sponsors amounting to PhP 40,892.00 were used to buy grocery items that include rice, canned goods and noodles. Meanwhile, those living outside Indang were sent cash assistance considering that they are on a “no work, no pay” basis since the start of the community quarantine. Also included in the beneficiaries are farm workers serving in the University.

 In addition, the sacrifices and hardwork of the law enforcers were also honored through the giving of 100 packs of Aguinaldo Blend coffee to the frontliners in Cavite with the assistance of PMaj. Fernel Dela Cruz of the Philippine National Police. The first 20 packs of Aguinaldo Blend coffee were distributed to quality controlled points managed by the Philippine National Police (PNP) and barangay personnel in the Municipality of Indang last April 13, 2020. The second batch of 65 packs of coffee were given to the Camp BGen Pantaleon Garcia in Imus City and were distributed to the assistant team leaders of checkpoint and selected police stations of the city. The remaining 15 packs of coffee were given to the Office of the Provincial Director, Base Police Personnel, and Provincial Logistics Branch of the Cavite Police Provincial Office.

 NCRDEC staff preparing food packs 
 Vice President Camilo Polinga handing packs of coffee to law enforcers 
 Frontliners receiving the donated coffee packs

----- DOC | CvSU Naic serves fisherfolks | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/cvsu-naic-serves-fisherfolks/ | 2020-06-25 -----
A total of 239 fisherfolks endorsed by the Municipal Agriculture Office received food packs from CvSU-Naic Campus as part of the institution's relief operation amidst the pandemic.

 They also delivered food packs security guards and utility workers reporting in campus  and to frontliners who are reserved armies from Labac, Mabulo, Bancaan, Sapa, Bagong Kalsada, Bucana Malaki, Kanluran, Balsahan and Ibayo Estacion. Donations from faculty and staff of CvSU Naic Campus were utilized to fund such project.

 Recipients of food packs from CvSU-Naic 
 Recipients of food packs from CvSU-Naic

----- DOC | CvSU-Silang implements 4 COVID-related projects | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/cvsu-silang-implements-4-covid-related-projects/ | 2020-06-25 -----
Consolidated donations from the faculty and staff of CvSU Silang Campus were utilized to fund the four projects that helped community members in its fights against COVID-19.

 Entitled “Tulong Pantawid sa Panahon ng COVID”, this first project delivered food packs and sanitation kits to utility workers who are serving even amidst the implementation of community quarantine.

 Meanwhile, “Guarding the Guards” donated vitamins and washable masks to guards reporting in the campus ensuring its security.

 For the other frontliners, “TYVM sa Checkpoint Frontliners” has distributed 100 capsules of vitamins, 21 food packs, 20 masks and Thank You cards to frontliners designated in Tagaytay-Mendez Checkpoint, Kaytambog Checkpoint, Tagaytay-Silang Checkpoint, Daine Checkpoint, Mendez-Indang Checkpoint and CvSU Gate 1.

 Other frontliners also received food packs as “Share the Love with the Frontliners” project gave them to 89 medical workers at Silang Specialist Medical Center and 23 merchandisers  from Premiere Robinson's Supermarket.

 Frontliners receiving food packs from CvSU Silang 
 Frontliners receiving food packs from CvSU Silang

----- DOC | CON partners with PNA-Cavite for donations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/con-partners-with-pna-cavite-for-donations/ | 2020-06-25 -----
College of Nursing (CoN) is not only a home to a number of frontliners working as healthcare providers against COVID-19. The said college, through the efforts and donations of its faculty and staff, in collaboration with alumni and the Philippine Nurses Association-Cavite Chapter, has also been active in extending assistance in various forms to a lot of beneficiaries: 

 They shared alcohol supplies to security personnel and delivered sacks of rice to laboratory aide and utility workers. Also, CoN is a partner donor fo r 300 face shields donated to health facilities in Cavite. This is in addition to the previously donated face shields distributed in different hospitals in the province. 

   

 Grocery packages and additional face masks to families in Brgy. Lucsuhin, Alfonso, Cavite and to frontliners of Baragay Limbon, Indang, Cavite in collaboration with CvSU MPC- Community Development Committee. 

  

 A frontliner receiving donation

----- DOC | CEIT students won in APPCON2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/ceit-students-won-in-appcon2020/ | 2020-06-25 -----
Team Vortex Dwyte won the “Best Technology” award in APPCON2020: An Invitational Application Development Contest.

 With the guidance of coach Marlon Pereña, first year BS Computer Science students Xander Dwight E. Martinez and Carl Justine G. Mosquida bagged a plaque of recognition, bronze medals and cash prize.

 Other winning schools include:  STI College- Meycauayan (Grand Winner); STI College-Bacoor (Excellence Awards); Technologocial Institute of the Philippines – Manila (Best Product); and University of Caloocan City –  Congressional (Most Creative).

----- DOC | CCJ, “kaagapay” amid crisis | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/ccj-kaagapay-amid-crisis/ | 2020-06-25 -----
With “Kaagapay laban sa COVID-19” spearheaded by the College of Criminal Justice (CCJ), 750 food packs were delivered to frontliners in the checkpoints and 10 hospitals in Cavite namely Gentri Medical Center and Hospital, Gentri Doctors Medical Center, Korea-Philippines Friendship Hospital, General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital, Cavite Center for Mental Health, MV Santiago Medical Center, Asia Medic Family Hospital and Medical Center, De La Salle University Medical Center, Pagamutan ng Dasmariñas, and St. Paul Hospital.

 Major funds came from private individuals of IHMC Batch 1978 and some additional donation from faculty and staff of CCJ. This was made possible in collaboration with Philippine Nurses Association-Cavite, CCJ alumni as frontliners in the Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines and alumni from the College of Nursing working in hospitals.

 Medical frontliners receiving food packs 
 Medical frontliners receiving food packs 
 Medical frontliners receiving food packs

----- DOC | CCAT's Bayanihan aids community groups | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/ccats-bayanihan-aids-community-groups/ | 2020-06-25 -----
CvSU – CCAT located in Rosario, Cavite has been extending assistance to community members through donations from different individuals and associations like Rotaract Club of CvSU-CCAT, Rotary PEZA and campus faculty and staff.

 PPSS and OSAS Unit provided rice assistance for nine construction workers from Calumpit, Bulacan and neighboring towns of Cavite stranded in the campus due to ECQ. Food packs were also distributed to 180 residents in Rosario and Tanza while the second wave benefited 30 families living within Rosario, Noveleta, Tanza, General Trias and Kawit. Food and drinks were also given to 50 barangay officials and volunteers, 80 frontliners in Divine Grace Medical Hospital, and 96 outpost attendants, street sweepers, and other residents in selected towns. Donations from members of Faculty and Employees Association, MPC and EBA have been converted into 29 sacks of rice for 139 families from the adopted community (Gawad Kalinga) and for security personnel and utility workers. Meanwhile, 335 kilos of rice were given to 103 tricycle drivers of EPTETODA and CvSU TODA. In another relief operation, sets of food and drinks were also shared to 139 families, 103 tricycle drivers and 200 frontliners in checkpoints in Rosario, Tanza and City of General Trias.

 In terms of health and sanitation, a total of 125 hygiene kits were donated to LGU front liners like baragay tanod, police, coast guards and other attendants in checkpoints .  Medical Services Department also provided health and nutrition education, preventive care, prenatal care and vitamin tablets to 19 construction workers and their immediate family members.

 All of these were made possible through the spirit of cooperation and generosity – the Bayanihan in CvSU-CCAT

----- DOC | CAS assists PDLs, counsels students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/cas-assists-pdls-counsels-students/ | 2020-06-25 -----
Monetary donation from the faculty members of the College of Arts and Sciences has reached 110 persons deprived of liberty (PDLs) housed in the Cavite Provincial Jail in Trece Martires City, Cavite.

 In partnership with the Holy Spirit FISHGEN Church Trece and other private individuals, a total of 680 face masks and sanitary kits were delivered to the said beneficiaries who are also vulnerable to the COVID-19 considering the distancing limitations inside the provincial jail.

 Meanwhile, the college continued to offer psychosocial support thru its online counseling. Dr. Paul Hilario also shared a lot of tips on how to stay mentally healthy amidst the crisis thru a live streaming last April 20. In addition, more than a hundred students have been counseled since the service was offered last March 15.

----- DOC | Health and agri support provided by CAFENR | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/health-and-agri-support-provided-by-cafenr/ | 2020-06-25 -----
The College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources provided support to both animals and humans in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 To assist residents in their home gardens, 155 beneficiaries received vegetable seeds (pechay, mustard, okra and kangkong) requested from the Department of Agriculture- Office of the Agriculture Provincial Coordinating Office. Recipients include CvSU employees and residents of the Bancod, Mahabang Kahoy, Buna Cerca, Calumpang Cerca, Poblacion, and Kaytambog. Members of Banaba Cerca Farmers Association also received the said planting materials.

 Meanwhile, 100 ready-to-drink immune-boosting camias juice to frontliners assigned in Brgy. Bancod and Poblacion. They were also given a mix of calamansi, ginger, lemongrass and sweet potato in the hope of helping their resistance against the virus.

 It was earlier reported that veterinary technical assistance was given to animal farms and domestic pets in Bacoor, Dasmariñas, Indang and Silang last April 21.

 Seeds repacked for distribution

----- DOC | DOST-CvSU's SciCAT sends fresh fruits | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/25/dost-cvsus-scicat-sends-fresh-fruits/ | 2020-06-25 -----
The advantage of having a farm is not only that it can supply a family's needs but it can also share the harvest to others especially during this time of crisis.

 This is what the Science for the Convergence of Agriculture and Tourism (SciCAT) Project Team did this April 2020 in a series of distribution of fresh fruits harvested from Silan Agri Farm.

 The first 188 ripe papaya were distributed to frontliners from the Philippine National Police (PNP) assigned in Barangay 1, staff of the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Municipal Environment and Natural Resources Office (MENRO), Traffic Enforcers Unit, IATF Operations, and Engineering Office in Barangay 3, and those from the  Rural Health Unit in Barangay 4, Indang, Cavite.

 The second wave has distributed 101 fresh papaya to the frontliners in General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial (GEAM) Hospital in Trece Martires City, Cavite while the third wave benefitted 185 frontliners in the Public Market, Bureau of Fire Protection and Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office in Indang, MV Santiago Medical Center in Trece Martires City, and City of General Trias Doctors Medical Center.

 The fourth and last batch of fresh papaya was then given to a total of 97 frontliners assigned in Brgy. Bancod, Indang and those serving as guards and skeleton staff of Cavite State University.

 Project SciCAT is funded by the Department of Science and Technology- Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development implemented by CvSU in partnership with Agri Silan Farm in Indang.

 Freshly harvested papaya from Silan Agri Farm 
 Frontliners receive papaya from Project SciCAT

----- DOC | 17 CvSU-LSHS graduating students pass UPCAT | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/24/17-cvsu-lshs-graduating-students-pass-upcat/ | 2020-06-24 -----
A total of 17 out 38 test takers (45%) from Cavite State University – Laboratory Science High School successfully passed the University of the Philippines College Admission Test (UPCAT) for Academic Year 2020-2021 administered last October 5 and 6, 2019. The successful examinees, tagged as “Mga Iskolar ng Bayan”, are the following:

 1          BADGETTE, Esther Grace L.   

 UP Los Baños, Doctor of  Veterinary  Medicine

 2          BELORIA, Jeanna Carisse E.   

 UP Manila, Degree Program with Available Slots

 3          FERMA, Czarisse Maereen H.   

 UP Los Baños, BS Applied Physics

 4          LITAN, Arian Faye L.     

 UP Diliman, BS Civil Engineering

 5          LLAMADO, Louise Carmela R.      

 UP Manila, BS Public Health

 6          MAGAT, Laurent Lee M.     

 UP Los Baños, Degree Program with Available Slots

 7          MALABANAN, Jewel Jade S.        

 UP Diliman, BS Architecture

 8          MARASIGAN, Diopany P.  

 UP Diliman, BS Statistics

 9          MARASIGAN, Meycen Keziah H. 

 UP Manila, BS Physical Therapy

 10        MERCADO, Lliani Kichi O. 

 UP Diliman, BS Interior Design

 11        MOJICA, Graciel Mae V.    

 UP Diliman, BS Business Administration and Accountancy

 12        MOJICA, Paula Nicole O.   

 UP Los Baños, BS Applied Mathematics

 13        OXEÑO, Aaron Mark V.      

 UP Manila, BS Biology

 14        PEREY, Ricci Colyn J.        

 UP Los Baños, BS Industrial Engineering

 15        RABACA, Jian Carlo P.       

 UP Diliman, BS Computer Engineering

 16        TSAI, Kristi Yana Fae N.    

 UP Manila, Degree Program with Available Slots

 17        VICEDO, Cyrene A. 

 UP Baguio, BA Communication

 
 This year, the CvSU Testing Center served as one of the UPCAT testing centers in Region IV-A.

 UPCAT is administered to graduates of Philippine and foreign high schools in various testing centers across the country and held once a year as part of the admission requirements of the University of the Philippines with more than 100,000 applicants. The test consists of four subtests: Language Proficiency (in English and Filipino), Reading Comprehension (in English and Filipino), Science, and Mathematics. University of the Philippines is known for its strong commitment to academic excellence and highly competitive admission process. (LCosta/YMarinay)

----- DOC | GAD-RC facilitates 1st online meeting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/gad-rc-facilitates-1st-online-meeting/ | 2020-06-22 -----
The GAD Resource Center conducted its 1 st office meeting via Zoom on April 30, 2020. Among the topics discussed were the center's plans and programs in relation to the Philippine Commission on Women's Memorandum Circular directing all government agencies to adjust and/or implement their approved 2020 GAD Plan and Budget in lieu of the current COVID19 pandemic. Considering the work-from-home scheme implemented by the University, the tasking of each of the GAD-RC staff was also discussed to ensure continuity of the center's day to day activities.  Details on the data to be collected to support the GAD programs and projects were also tackled to ensure that all activities are properly documented and monitored.

----- DOC | GAD-RC conducts Orientation with Federation of Persons with Disability – Cavite, Inc. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/gad-rc-conducts-orientation-with-federation-of-persons-with-disability-cavite-inc/ | 2020-06-22 -----
With the theme “Time for Change: Realizing the Rights of Women with Disabilities”, Federation of Persons with Disability – Cavite, Inc (FPDCI) and GAD-RC, conducted an Orientation on Gender Sensitivity last March 11, 2020 at CACODEC Seminar Area, Provincial Capitol Compound, Trece Martires City, Cavite.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC of GADRC, discussed the difference between sex and gender, gender role, gender stereotyping and agents of gender socialization. She emphasized that both culture and society have a very big impact on the expectation on the characteristics, aptitudes, and likely behaviors of both women and men. She also added that gender socialization begins with the family as soon as the baby is  born.

 Mr. David D. Gonzaga, President, FPDCI, expressed his gratitude to CvSU in providing the orientation to their members.

 The said activity is also in line with the celebration of Women's Month and the 16 th Women with Disabilities Day. It was attended by 7 female and 14 male participants.

----- DOC | CvSU GAD-RC attends the 4th Regional Women's Month Celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/cvsu-gad-rc-attends-the-4th-regional-womens-month-celebration/ | 2020-06-22 -----
Gender and Development Resource Center attended the CALABARZON Regional Development Council's 4 th Regional Women's Month Celebration conducted last March 5, 2020 at the University of Rizal System, Morong, Rizal.

 In the said activity made possible through the Regional Gender and Development Committee, USec. Carim Panumpang of the Department of Agrarian Reform highlighted the efforts of DAR in mainstreaming gender and development and ensuring the inclusion of rural women in its services.

 A film on teenage pregnancy produced by the Commission on Population was also shown during the program. The film showing was intended to increase the awareness of the participants on the growing issue of teenage pregnancy in the region. Also included in the program is the presentation from a personnel from DAR and cultural presentations of the students from URS.

 Meanwhile, DOH Region IV-A provided free pneumonia vaccine to the participants. while haircut, massage, manicure, and pedicure was also provided by TESDA Rizal.

 Dir. Rene Colocar of DAR Region IV-A, requested the participants to join the singing of the song entitled, “Juana”, which was prepared by the Cavite State University.

----- DOC | Consultative Meeting with IAPWDI held | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/consultative-meeting-with-iapwdi-held/ | 2020-06-22 -----
A consultative meeting with nine (9) female and five (5) male officers of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. (IAPWDI) was held as part of the continuous extension program of the Gender and Development Resource Center in its  Empowerment of Gender and Development Stakeholders for Achieving Gender and Equality in Calabarzon.

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC, discussed the 2020 Calendar of Activities to the officers of the association. Topics given include: Gender-Responsive Disaster; Preparedness; Basic GAD Concepts; Magna Carta of Women; Magna Carta for PWD; Anti-Rape Law; Orientation on SOGIE; and Gender-Fair Language.

 Among the given topics, the officers of the association identified the seminar on disaster risk preparedness as an immediate concern of the group. This was  due to numerous reports they have received that PWDs were left in their houses during the evacuation caused by the eruption of the Taal volcano.

----- DOC | GAD-RC conducts Gender Sensitivity Seminar among CCJ students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/gad-rc-conducts-gender-sensitivity-seminar-among-ccj-students/ | 2020-06-22 -----
In preparation for their On-the-Job Training (OJT), GAD Resource Center (GAD-RC) conducted an orientation on gender sensitivity and sexual harassment among 9 female and 21 male  students of the College of Criminal Justice last February 3, 2020.

 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, OIC, GAD-RC, discussed Gender Sensitivity explaining the Difference between Sex and Gender, Gender Role, Gender Stereotyping and Agents of Gender Socialization. Different activities were done by the students for them to fully understand the topics discussed. A video about the difference between sex and gender was also shown to the participants. They were also asked to comment and identify the gender issues on the video.

 Written exercises were also given to the participants after the discussion on the use of gender-fair language.

 The second speaker, Mr. John Renz D. Emelo, staff, GAD-RC, discussed the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995. Procedures on how to report sexual harassment were also explained to the OJTs.

 The activity ended with the participants sharing their insights on the topics discussed.

----- DOC | CCJ conducts Workshop on Integrating GAD in the Curriculum | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/22/ccj-conducts-workshop-on-integrating-gad-in-the-curriculum/ | 2020-06-22 -----
Along with its Faculty, Staff, and Student Orientation and Consultative Meeting from January 22 to 23, 2020, the College of Criminal Justice also hosted a Workshop on Integrating GAD in the Curriculum.

 Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, Certified National GAD Resource Pool Trainer of the Philippine Commission on Women oriented the participants on gender sensitivity and on how to integrate gender concepts in their syllabi. She also discussed the importance of Gender and Development among students. The said workshop was attended by 21 female and 16 male participants.

----- DOC | Speakers for the Webinar Series | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/21/speakers-for-the-webinar-series/ | 2020-06-21 -----
The following are the speakers for the Webinar Series on Course Design and Delivery for Flexible Learning Arrangement, a capability enhancement training for the faculty members of Cavite State University.

 BERNARD S. FERANIL, MA, LPT 
 PROF. JULIE S. GUEVARA 
 DR. AMMIE P. FERRER 
 DR. MELINDA dP. BANDALARIA 
 DR. HENRY G. MAGAT 
 JULIE ANN C. LONTOC, MSCS
EZRA MARIE F. RAMOS, MSCS 
 SIMEON E. DAEZ, MIT
JAY-ARR BUHAIN, MIT
JULIE ANN C. LONTOC, MSCS
MARLON R. PEREÑA, MIT
EZRA MARIE F. RAMOS, MSCS 
 MS. EVELYN F. GRUESO
PROF. JASON R. MANIACOP 
 MS. LADY AILEEN A. ORSAL
MR. RENZ KEVIN M. ALCAZAR

----- DOC | Webinar Series 2020: Course Design and Delivery for Flexible Learning Arrangement | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/19/webinar-series-2020-course-design-and-delivery-for-flexible-learning-arrangement/ | 2020-06-19 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Submission of medical requirements for student applicants this coming AY 2020-2021 
 Speakers for the Webinar Series

----- DOC | Submission of medical requirements for student applicants this coming AY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/18/submission-of-medical-requirements-for-student-applicants-this-coming-ay-2020-2021/ | 2020-06-18 -----
ADVISORY 

 Submission of medical requirements for student applicants this coming AY 2020-2021 is TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED considering that those aged 20 and below are still not allowed to go out in areas still under General Community Quarantine. They may submit the said requirements once community guidelines permit such. 

 Thank you.

----- DOC | Announcement for Admission Main Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/09/announcement-for-admission-main-campus/ | 2020-06-09 -----
Admission examination of applicants for incoming first year college, transferees and second coursers is cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic.

 
 
 
 Applicants who had a schedule of appointment with the Office of Student Affairs and Services (OSAS) from March 11-30, 2020 and those who registered online from April 1-10, 2020 may submit their credentials in any available means including but not limited to the following:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Electronic mail (Email)

 

 

 
 cvsuosasmain@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 
 
 
 
 Google form (link will be sent by OSAS Personnel thru email)

 FB messenger

 

 

 
 Cavite State University Main OSAS

 
 
 
 
 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc.

 

 

 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services
Cavite State University
Indang, Cavite 
 
 
 
 
 
 Drop box at Indang Municipal Office

 Drop box at CvSU-Main Campus Entrance Gates (Gate 1 & Gate 2)

 

 

 
 
 
 The following are the required documents/credentials which can be submitted either in hard or soft copy (scanned, screen shots etc.):

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copy of the filled out application form for admission;

 Grade 12 report card; and

 Certification of good moral character

 

 

 
  

 
 The grades of applicants shall be evaluated according to the admission policy of the University. Below are the documents to be submitted for evaluation:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Incoming 1 st year –           Grade 12 report card of Senior High School graduates/completers

 Transferees  –           Transcript of records

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Second coursers  –           Transcript of records

 

 

 
 
 
 The grades reflected in the Transcript of Record (TOR) / Certificate of Grades (COG) of transferees and second coursers will be evaluated in accordance with the admission/retention policy of CvSU. The grade requirement for transferee is GPA of 2.00 (equivalent of 85%) or better and no failed grade.

 
 
 
 
 No transferee or shiftee shall be admitted for the following programs and year level:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Engineering programs – after the first year level

 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program – after the fourth year level

 Other programs – after the second year level

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Application for transferees and second course students is still open . They may apply on-line using this link: https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ and may submit their application form and other requirements in any available means including but not limited to the following:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Electronic mail (Email)

 

 

 
 cvsuosasmain@cvsu.edu.ph 

 
 
 
 
 
 Google form (link will be sent by OSAS Personnel thru email)

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 FB messenger

 

 

 
 Cavite State University Main OSAS

 
 
 
 
 
 Mail, parcel, courier, etc.

 

 

 
 Office of Student Affairs and Services
Cavite State University
Indang, Cavite 
 
 
 
 Qualified applicants for college admission shall be notified regarding their admission in any means, including but not limited to email, FB Messenger, text messages, phone calls, courier, etc.

 
 
 
 
 Application for admission of incoming first year college students at CvSU Main Campus is already closed . The Main campus has reached more than the maximum capacity/number of applicants for First Semester, SY 2020- 2021.

----- DOC | Announcement for Request of Documents | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/06/09/announcement-for-request-of-documents/ | 2020-06-09 -----
Procedure on the issuance of documents to previous graduates, undergraduate students, transferees and other clients 

 
  With your course as the “Subject” of your email, send a request to registrarmain.request@cvsu.edu.ph (Only requests sent thru this email will be processed.)

  Wait for the confirmation of your request through the link provided.

  Wait for the schedule of release to be provided by the assigned registrar staff.

----- DOC | Procedures for incoming first year college, transferees and second course student-applicants | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/procedures-for-incoming-first-year-college-transferees-and-second-course-student-applicants/ | 2020-05-17 -----
ANNOUNCEMENT

 Please read the following procedures for:

a) incoming first year college student-applicants; and

b) transferees and second course student-applicants.

 Note: https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas will be available on May 18, 2020

----- DOC | TRAFFIC ADVISORY NO. VPASS -01 s 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/traffic-advisory-no-vpass-01-s-2020/ | 2020-05-17 -----
TRAFFIC ADVISORY NO. VPASS -01 s 2020

 EFFECTIVE MAY 18, 2020, CAVITE STATE UNIVERSITY MAIN CAMPUS WILL IMPLEMENT A NEW TRAFFIC SCHEME INSIDE THE UNIVERSITY.

 1. The University is not yet on a “Business As Usual” status because of the current situation of the province under GCQ. Only OFFICIALS, FACULTY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES are allowed to enter the University. Visitors, students, parents, and guardians are not allowed.

 2. The ATM and the GSIS Kiosk is temporarily unavailable for public use due to connection problem.

 3. Entrance to the Campus shall be through GATE 1 and exit will be through GATE 2. There will be a ONE-WAY TRAFFICE SCHEME in the major road of the Campus.

 4. All vehicles coming from Kaytapos shall enter through the RIGHT lane of Gate 1 while all vehicles coming from Poblacion and Bancod shall enter through the LEFT lane of Gate 1. Strictly, there will only be two lanes of vehicles entering the campus to facilitate checking of requirements and thermal scanning.

 5. The road from Admin to Gate 1 is closed for traffic. Exit will be at Gate 2. All employees assigned at the SELS, HEVTED and CEd shall enter through the entrance in front of CDC.

 6. SOCIAL DISTANCING SHALL BE STRICTLY OBSERVED. All vehicles carrying passengers more than the required sacrificing social distancing shall not be allowed access.

 7. All passengers and drivers of the vehicles entering the University shall pass through thermal scanning. All vehicles with passengers exhibiting symptoms of cough and colds or with temperature above normal (37.5 oC) shall not be allowed access.

 8. Everyone is highly enjoined to cooperate to avoid traffic jam.

----- DOC | Implementing Guidelines For All Individuals Who Will Enter The University Premises | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/implementing-guidelines-for-all-individuals-who-will-enter-the-university-premises/ | 2020-05-17 -----
PUBLIC ADVISORY NO. OVPASS-1- s 2020

 IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES FOR ALL INDIVIDUALS WHO WILL ENTER THE UNIVERSITY PREMISES (ALL CAMPUSES)

 Effective May 18, 2020

 I. STRICT IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DOH, IATF, and POST ECQ PROTOCOLS for every individual who will enter inside the University premises (all campuses)

 a. Outsiders and employees who are identified as PUIs or PUMs are not allowed to enter the University premises without clearance from DOH. The negative result of the COVID-19 test or the Updated Health Monitoring Card must be presented. Employees who are returning from other municipalities/provinces/regions with several COVID-19 cases shall also seek clearance from RHU.

 b. All individuals entering the University premises are required to wear a face mask. No Face Mask, No Entry Policy shall be implemented in the University.

 c. The security guards who will man the University Gates shall be provided with the required PPEs and shall be equipped with thermal scanners.

 d. Security guards with scanner will be posted at the gate of the campus to check all the requirements and to monitor body temperature of all individuals who wish to enter the University premises.

 e. All individuals found to have temperature above the normal (37.5 oC or higher), or who have cough or colds, will not be given access to the campus.

 f. The use of biometrics to check the attendance of the employees is temporarily suspended. The use of logbooks is encouraged.

 g. Roving SGs are instructed to apprehend all individuals who will not observe proper physical distancing. Likewise, those gathering in a group of more than 10 people without observing proper distancing shall be dispersed.

 h. All deliveries are not allowed access inside the University, except those that are official and authorized by the University President.

 II. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FACULTY MEMBERS, EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS

a. No Employee ID, No Entry policy will be implemented. Faculty members and employees who seek entrance to the campus shall present their valid employee IDs as required in the checkpoints. Their names shall be submitted to the security guards on duty and shall be identified employees authorized to report to the campus.

 b. Faculty members and employees who are not on the list shall not be allowed access to the University.

 c. All reporting employees shall bring their own food and utensils. No canteen will be allowed to open for dine in.

 d. Since the semester officially ended, no students are allowed entrance to the University except those who are given special permission by the campus administrators or college deans.

----- DOC | List of Qualifiers in the Grade 11 Entrance Examination for SY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/list-of-qualifiers-in-the-grade-11-entrance-examination-for-sy-2020-2021/ | 2020-05-17 -----
RESULTS ARE OUT!!! Passers are IN!!!

 Here is the list of Qualifiers in the Grade 11 Entrance Examination for SY 2020-2021 given last March 6, 2020 at the CvSU Laboratory Science High School – Main Campus

----- DOC | List of Qualifiers in the Grade 7 Entrance Examination for SY 2020-2021 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/list-of-qualifiers-in-the-grade-7-entrance-examination-for-sy-2020-2021/ | 2020-05-17 -----
RESULTS ARE OUT!!! Passers are IN!!!

 Here is the list of Qualifiers in the Grade 7 Entrance Examination for SY 2020-2021 given last March 6, 2020 at the CvSU Laboratory Science High School – Main Campus

----- DOC | Exempting R.A. 10931 from the 35% reduction in the 2020 National Budget | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/05/exempting-r-a-10931-from-the-35-reduction-in-the-2020-national-budget/ | 2020-05-09 -----
Thank you DBM Secretary Wendel E. Avisado for exempting R.A. 10931 from the 35% reduction in the 2020 National Budget ❤ ? 

 (R.A.10931 refers to the Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act.)

----- DOC | Fresh papaya from Silan farm distributed | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/fresh-papaya-from-silan-farm-distributed/ | 2020-04-28 -----
Through the Science for the Convergence of Agriculture and Tourism (SciCAT) Project, Cavite State University, in partnership with Silan farm has distributed fresh papaya to frontliners assigned in various areas in Cavite.

 For the three waves of distribution, more than 300 fresh papaya were delivered to the Public Market,  Bureau of Fire Protection, Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office and Local Government Unit in Indang, General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital and MV Santiago Medical Center in Trece Martires City, and City of General Trias Doctors Medical Center in the City of General Trias.

 SciCAT is funded by the Department of Science and Technology – Philippine Council Agriculture, Aquatic and Natural Resources Research and Development. The said project is currently being led by Dr. Lilibeth P. Novicio, Director of Extension Services.

 Frontliners in GtDMC 
 Frontliners in MV Santiago 
 Papaya delivered to LGU-Indang

----- DOC | CvSU unites to cheer frontliners through poems | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/cvsu-unites-to-cheer-frontliners-through-poems/ | 2020-04-28 -----
In line with the celebration of April as the National Month of Literature, Cavite State University launched “Bayanihan sa pamamagitan ng Panitikan”, a call for the members of the community to share poems of inspiration to motivate readers and uplift their spirits amidst the crisis.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, University President, started expressing his support to the frontliners with his piece entitled “Bagong Bayani: Salamat Frontliners”. It was then followed by “Bulaklak” written by Ms. Lolita Herrera, Director of Finance Management Office, and “Miracles Abound” by Ms. Mariel M. Lising, Director of International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office.

 Poems written by faculty members are: “Dahil Sayo!” by Jhustyn Ryerson Delos Trinos of the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies; “Sambitla” by Mr. Abdullah Tabale Abubakar of the  College of Arts and Sciences; and “A Step Back in Order to Move Forward” by Ms. Jaodarnilaynn Loyola of the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation.

 Featured pieces from students include: “Bayani” by Eldrian Contreras (Bachelor in Elementary Education); “Corona o Korona” by Via Mae Villanueva (Bachelor in Secondary Education); “Ang Nakaraang Kasalukuyan” by Mark Noriel Lacbayen (BS Business Management); “Mga Bayani ng Pandemya” by Vincent Olipano (BS Business Management); “Frontliners” by Jasper Famini (Bachelor of Secondary Education); and “Laban Frontliners” by Jackie Palpallatoc (BS Education major in Mathematics).

 Alumni also expressed their support through the following poems: “Bayani ng Bayan Ko” by Therese Peji (BS Psychology, 2017); “Saludo” by Crystal Sheen Vicedo (BS Tourism Management, 2017); “Frontliners, Kumusta Na” by Ian Paul Atienza (BS Civil Engineering,2019); “Laban Bayan Ko!” By Erica De Castro Arica (BS Business Management, 2020): and Bayani Juan by Joshua Villaluz (BS Fisheries, 2016).

 Poem of Dr. Robles dedicated to frontliners

----- DOC | CEd shares healthy, innovative recipes | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/ced-shares-healthy-innovative-recipes/ | 2020-04-28 -----
Aside from social distancing and following the rules of quarantine, boosting the immune system and keeping a healthy diet is also necessary to fight COVID-19.

 With this, the College of Education, through the Home Economics, Vocational and Technical Education Department,  launched “Healthy Recipes to Combat COVID-19” that aims to share innovative recipes prepared by their faculty and staff. Through such, the community is being encouraged to  work on the ingredients they commonly have even in times of quarantine like sardines, rice and egg.

 Some of the healthy recipes are: Camote Tops Tea, Guyalandan Juice and Puloty LuyaMansi Tea by Chef Patrick Glenn Ilano; Bulanglang na Himbabao by Ms. Gem J. Carlum; Tuna Lumpia by Ms. Arjanelyn Loquiano; Pasta de Sardines con Malunggay by Dr. Pia Rhoda Lucero; Stir-Fry Kangkong and Upo with Sardines by Mr. Jeffrey Aguila; Tortang Gulay by Ms. Cherry Mangilog; Dinengdeng by Mr. Romeo Reyes III; Kangkong and Tofu Stir Fry by Jeferson Mojica; PandePizzAdobo by Mr.Ruel Mendoza; and Rice Soup with Egg by Mark Anthony Arandia.

 One of the recipes shared by Chef Ilano

----- DOC | CoN distributes PPE to Cavite hospitals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/con-distributes-ppe-to-cavite-hospitals/ | 2020-04-27 -----
College of Nursing has produced globally competitive nurses, medical technologists and midwives who served as frontliners in the fight against COVID-19. In Cavite alone, there are more than 200 CON alumni who were reported to  work on different healthcare facilities such as City of General Trias Doctors Medical Center, General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital and Manuel V. Santiago Medical Center while others serve in as fire officers, police officers and soldiers. With this, Personal Protective Equipment that include 300 pieces of improvised face shields and 200 cloth facemasks were distributed as a form of assistance to frontliners.

 Meanwhile, infographics were made to educate the public on how to contribute in flattening the curve while staying at home during the Enhanced Community Quarantine. With CvSU CON banner, they reminded the residents to: C lean hands and surrounding; Verify news and information before sharing; S upport frontliners; U nderstand the policies implemented by authorities; C ontrol and minimize contact to others; O bserve productivity while at home; and N ote emergency hotlines. They also used their Facebook page to inspire people with their spoken word poetry piece entitled “Kalabang Hindi Makita” and their vlog series on “Quarantine Routine”. (LCRoderos) 

 A sample face shield distributed to frontliners

----- DOC | CvSU Cavite City helps communities amidst crisis | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/cvsu-cavite-city-helps-communities-amidst-crisis/ | 2020-04-27 -----
In response to COVID-19, CvSU-Cavite City faculty and staff extended kindness to over 400 households, including fisherfolks of Barangay 61-A Talong, Cavite City.

 Aside from donations for the frontliners at the Philippine General Hospital, the campus' NSTP program spearheaded the distribution of food to those on duty at several checkpoints in Cavite City and Noveleta.

 The Department of Management, in collaboration with the Junior Marketing Association of Cavite City, gave food packs and cash donations to selected students and their families. It also partnered with Garita Elementary School in distributing food to the barangay officials of Brgy. 55-Ampalaya.

 Meanwhile, faculty members of the Departments of Information and Technology, Teacher Education and Languages, and Arts and Sciences, were also active in assisting their respective communities.

 Campus Administrator Ms. Maria Cristina J. Baesa who personally donated homemade disinfectants to 245 households in several barangays, emphasized that this is an opportunity for CvSU family to practically embody the virtue of service being considered as one of the insitution's core values.

 “ Ang inyo pong handog ay napakalaking tulong po sa aming mga napiling residente. Maraming marami pong salamat sa mga sponsors ninyo. Huwag po sana kayong magsasawang tumulong ,” one of the beneficiaries said while expressing gratitude for the assistance received. (JJangad) 

 Residents received homemade disinfectants

----- DOC | CvSU Bacoor implements four projects against COVID-19 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/cvsu-bacoor-implements-four-projects-against-covid-19/ | 2020-04-27 -----
The pandemic that has gripped the country in the past months has not only changed the way we look at things and at people, but also the manner we respond to unexpected circumstances. We may think and act differently but at the end of the day, we will realize that we would rather do something that matters, something that can make a difference in other people's lives, however small that act may be. This has inspired the whole community of Cavite State University Bacoor City Campus to help ease the struggles and hardships individuals and families experience as they face the crisis that is COVID-19.

 The campus has successfully implemented four projects in March as it tried to combat the spread of coronavirus and mitigate its effect on the lives of the most vulnerable groups within the community.

 More than 200 copies of flyers and leaflets of an infographic about cleaning and disinfecting using chlorine/water and saline solutions were distributed to nearby establishments and residences. CvSU Bacoor employees and students helped in the dissemination to the general public through social media, particularly via Facebook.

 Relief packs were also provided to 17 stranded students residing near the campus assuring the students that they are not alone in their battle against COVID-19. A free layout/photo editing service was also offered to the 65 members of the Barangay Mambog IV COVID-19 quarantine team for the production of their IDs. Finally, 16 sets of Zonrox-water solutions and salt were distributed to selected residents in Perpetual Village 6 in Mambog IV.

 They say that the most beautiful things in life are not seen but felt by the heart. But if we can see the joy in the eyes of those who have received our small acts of kindness, then happiness takes on a different meaning. We fight COVID-19 as one. We heal as one. (MLLamanilao) 

 Store attendant receives IEC material from CvSU Bacoor

----- DOC | CvSU sends RELIEF against COVID-19 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/04/cvsu-sends-relief-against-covid-19/ | 2020-04-27 -----
Even with the implementation of the enhanced community quarantine, Cavite State University extended service to its stakeholders with the banner program “CvSU RELIEF: Kontra COVID-19, implemented through its 12 campuses in Cavite.

 As of April 9, 2020, it has delivered 1,935 food packs, including freshly harvested fish and vegetables to students stranded in dormitories, employees who serve as frontliners like security personnel and utility workers, and community members who live near the campuses. Free transportation service was also offered to students who were affected by the lockdown and are now reunited with their families.

 For medical supplies, CvSU has donated more than 4, 611 face masks and face shields including materials used in the production of such to hospitals in the province and checkpoints where frontliners have been assigned. It has also distributed 12,047 health and sanitation kits that include vitamins, alcohol, soap and disinfectants to community members.

 In battling against fake information spreading over the net, CvSU released around 73 information materials that explain facts about COVID-19, social distancing, use of masks, and disinfection among others. It also provided links for credible sites and online courses that may be studied to increase productivity during the quarantine. Healthy recipes were also published encouraging creativity even with simple ingredients like sardines and camote.

 Various campuses also offer psychosocial support programs like online counseling to address the anxiety that may be brought by the crisis. It has also been circulating prayers and spiritual support to encourage people to pray for the country. Through its Facebook page, it also releases poems of hope written by its students and employees spreading words of motivation for the readers.

 Hundreds of its alumni are also serving as frontliners in the field of health, security, banking and finance, social work and other jobs necessary to keep the nation moving.

 With cash donations from various individuals and in coordination with partner agencies, CvSU continues to deliver assistance to those in need while hoping that this crisis will soon end.

 RELIEF stands for Research and Extension Life-changing Initiatives for the Empowerment of Filipinos that was first launched in December 2019 as it sent donations to earthquake victims in Cotabato, relaunched in January as aid to families affected by the Taal eruption and is now being implemented to help fight against COVID-19.

 Reunited with her family through free transportation service 
 Students receive freshly harvested fish from the Techno-Demo Farm 
 Students in boarding houses receive food packs weekly 
 Homemade disinfectants were distributed 
 Face masks and Face shields were distributed to hospitals in Cavite

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on March 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/11/newly-granted-university-personnel-on-march-2020/ | 2020-03-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Update Advisory as of March 17, 2020 
 CvSU sends RELIEF against COVID-19

----- DOC | Update Advisory as of March 17, 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/update-advisory-as-of-march-17-2020/ | 2020-03-17 -----
In response to the declaration of the President placing entire Luzon into Enhanced Community Quarantine, the following shall be strictly followed: 

 1. All classes in all levels at the Main Campus, the satellite campuses, and all learning centers in Cavite, QNAS, WPU, MinSCAT, OMSC and MSC will remain suspended until April 14, 2020. Coordinators from the said LC shall coordinate with the OVPAA for guidance on the use of alternative modes of instruction during the period. Likewise, GS in-charge in the external LC shall inform their counterparts with regards to class suspension. 

 2. Faculty and employees are allowed to work from home. Classes can be in any form of alternative modes approved by the Academic Council such as, but not limited to, online classes, group chats, Google Classroom, etc. 

 3. Non-academic employees are not required to report for work except frontliners such as selected PPS personnel who will do disinfecting works, security guards, skeletal force who will feed animals and water plants, workers in the water refilling station and other research projects that need time to time attention, and medical personnel to extend assistance to RHU, MHU and other health providers. However, social distancing for those selected to form the skeletal force shall be observed. 

 4. The whole University and its campuses are close for outside visitors during the quarantine period. 

 5. The Management of the private companies providing services to the University shall take charge of their own employees (Janitorial and Security Services) with strict compliance with enhanced quarantine guidelines. 

 6. All other employees not involved in any skeletal work force shall stay at home and shall use only electronic means for any announcement, queries and advisories. 

 7. The University will not allow any request for use of any University facilities such as venue for sports event, conferences, wedding and reception venues, birthdays, pre-nup photo shoot and all other activities during the community quarantine period. Hostel Tropicana and International House will be closed for Balikbayan Tourists and other guests during the said period. 

 8. These guidelines will be updated from time to time as necessary. 

 9. Your cooperation is highly enjoined. 

 10. Thank you.

----- DOC | Additional Guidelines on the Prevention of COVID-19 Transmission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/additional-guidelines-on-the-prevention-of-covid-19-transmission/ | 2020-03-16 -----
ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES ON THE PREVENTION OF COVID-19 TRANSMISSION THROUGH SOCIAL DISTANCING AND FOR ALL OTHER PURPOSES IN ITS MANAGEMENT

 1. In addition to initial guidelines issued on March 15, 2020 by the OUP through PACO, the following additional guidelines shall be strictly followed:

 1.1 All classes, both graduate and undergraduate, will remain suspended until April 14, 2020 or until further notice.

 1.2 No students shall be allowed to enter the premises of the university including in the branch/satellite campuses during the period of class suspension except on the following cases:

 1.2.1 Those students who are conducting thesis inside campus which involved plants and animals that need to be watered and fed. However, they shall be strictly monitored and advised to get out immediately after their task for the day is completed. Prolong stay in the vicinity is prohibited.

 1.3 Outside visitors shall not be allowed during the period where classes are suspended and they should be advised that any transaction shall be by electronic means (text messages, messenger, e-mail, etc.).

 1.4 The University Mall and other concessionaires are hereby advised to temporarily close operation from March 16-April 14, 2020 when there are no students except the following:

 1.4.1 Those selling food items/groceries and other day-to-day public necessities such as alcohol, tissue papers, soap, etc. However, they should limit the number of customers getting inside the stores or devise a strategy how to lessen customers queue in any given time. During the period from March 16 to April 14, those who will voluntarily close their shops will not be required to pay rentals.

 1.5 VP for Academic Affairs shall submit to OUP for approval the proposal/plans to fulfill students educational requirements during the said period.

 1.6 VPASS, VPRE and VPPD shall submit proposals to OUP for approval the measures to implement provision of MC No. 7, s.2020 and CSC Announcement No. 12, s.2020, dated March 16, 2020 re: Alternative Work Arrangement in the Light of Code Red Sub-Level 2 issued by the Office of the President through DOH.

 1.7 Any work arrangement for both faculty and non-teaching personnel that may be approved shall not compromise the effective delivery of service and shall not affect the university productivity and performance with regard to Instruction, Research and Extension and General Services.

 1.8 The University Medical staff is hereby directed to extend assistance to all employees who will be declared as PUI or PUM due to possible exposure during their previous travel to areas with confirmed COVID-19 cases before March 16, 2020. They should coordinate from time to time with the Provincial Health Unit, MHU and DOH Regional office for more reliable information regarding the disease.

 1.9 All official travels (planned or unplanned) outside the province is hereby temporarily suspended.

 1.10 All PPS drivers are hereby instructed to disinfect their respective assigned vehicle and shall remain parked in the motor pool.

 2. Additional guidelines anent to this shall be issued from time to time if the situation warrants.

 3. The cooperation of everyone during the challenging time is highly enjoined.

 4. Please be guided accordingly.

 5. Be safe everyone

----- DOC | Initial Guidelines to Implement Social Distancing | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/initial-guidelines-to-implement-social-distancing/ | 2020-03-15 -----
INITIAL GUIDELINES TO IMPLEMENT SOCIAL DISTANCING EFFECTIVE MARCH 16-17,2020

 
 All faculty members including JO part time are not required to report for work on March 16-17 until further notice. Non-academic employees, however, are required to report but should exercise social distance of at least 1 meter .

 Avoid congregating anywhere within the University including campuses.

 No students or student applicants shall be allowed entry until further advise.

 Offices shall not accept outside visitors for the mean time.

 All employees are encouraged to bring own food or take lunch at home. Eating at canteen restaurants is discouraged.

 Important messages, queries, advisories shall be by electronics means.

 PPS Staff, SGs, and Outsource Janitorial Staff are directed to do disinfecting works in all buildings.

 Additional updates will be issued after the meeting with the LGU and other agencies involved in the COVID-19 management.

 All employees are discouraged to post, like , share any unofficial release not coming from WHO, DOH, DILG , IATF for COVID-19 and concerned LGUs.

 Please be guided accordingly

 Be safe everyone.

 
 Ref: CMO 19, 2005, CHED Advisory Nos. 1-4, s. 2020. IATF Resolution 11-12. OPG Advisories.

----- DOC | Comprehensive Examinations of the Graduate School and Open Learning College | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/comprehensive-examinations-of-the-graduate-school-and-open-learning-college/ | 2020-03-12 -----
ANNOUNCEMENT 

 To ensure safety of everyone, the comprehensive examinations of the Graduate School and Open Learning College initially scheduled on March 21, 28 and April 4, 2020 will be moved to the following dates:

 
 First Batch – April 18, 25 and May 2, 2020

 Second Batch –  May 9, 16 and 23, 2020

 
 For inquiries, you may contact GS-OLC: 09093007560

 We hope for your kind understanding on this matter.

 Thank you.

 (Source: GS-OLC Memo No. 6, s. 2020 dated March 11, 2020

----- DOC | CvSU Imus receives AYA 2019-2020 from PMA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/cvsu-imus-receives-aya-2019-2020-from-pma/ | 2020-03-12 -----
Cavite State University Imus Campus bagged Agora Youth Award (AYA) 2019-2020 for being one of the Marketing Schools of the Year recognized by the Philippine Marketing Association (PMA) at the Winford Hotel Manila last March 8.

 The award was given after top executives from prestigious companies served as evaluators of the marketing plans of competing schools in a final judging conducted at Ateneo Professional School, Rockwell, Makati on March 6. The winning proposal entitled “Real-Life Business Case for Toyota Motors Corporation's New Hybrid Electric Vehicle” was presented by seven Business Management major in Marketing students namely Gheanne Mherl Abubo, Leo Basal, Ramonchito Castillo, Maria Victoria Orro Harder, Harlene Ramirez, Aldren Sarmiento, and Leslie Suyat led by their adviser, Ms. Ruby-Lyn T. De Grano and endorsed by Management Department Chairperson Dr. Alfe M. Solina.

 Since its establishment in 1954, Philippine Marketing Association (PMA) remains to be a leading institution for marketing excellence in the country. This year, they collaborated with Toyota Motors Corporation aiming to recognize remarkable companies and individuals who have successfully navigated the evolving business landscape.

  “ I am very proud of the students' achievement. With the 16 schools who competed, it was very overwhelming that Cavite State University Imus Campus made it to the top finalists. During the preparation for the competition, the team took it seriously to perfect their marketing plan, and their hard work paid off ” De Grano said.

 In his Facebook post, Castillo stated that it is an honor to bring the name of CvSU in the said event proving that it can be at par with other universities in the country. ( RL De Grano) 

 The Top 5 finalists: Cavite State University Imus Campus, Miriam College, San Beda University, University of the Philippines Visayas, and University of Santo Tomas 
 CvSU Imus with the keynote speaker, Ma. Cristina Fe Arevalo from Toyota Motors Philippines 
 

 CvSU Imus with current Board of Directors of PMA headed by President, Ms. Faith Abano (extreme right) and the PMA Director for Youth and Academe, Ms. Jaana Abrogena (second to the left)

----- DOC | Senior High students complete immersion at CAFENR | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/senior-high-students-complete-immersion-at-cafenr/ | 2020-03-12 -----
Ten senior high school students from Trece Martires City Senior High School and two from Indang Christian Academy completed their work immersion in agriculture at the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) on February 12, 2020. The immersion is a requirement for senior high school students under the STEM strand.

 From January 28 to February 11, 2020, the students had immersion activities in the following offices: Pollution Control Office, Institute of Food Science and Technology, Environmental Geo-Information and Remote Sensing (EnGIRS) Laboratory, University Library, Sugar Palm Research, Information and Trade Center (SPRINT), Department of Animal Science, Department of Agricultural Entrepreneurship, National Coffee Research, Development, and Extension Center (NCRDEC), Vegetable Production Area, Department of Forestry and Environmental Science, Department of Crop Science, Fruit Crop Nursery, Ornamental Nursery, Herbs Project, Agromet Station, Research Center, Extension Services Office, and CEIT Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering.

 It is CAFENR's second year to accept immersion students as part of implementing its CHED Institutional Development and Innovation Grants (IDIG) on “Reinvigorating the BS Agriculture Curriculum: Developing Agri-technopreneurs”. The activity is also an opportunity for the College to promote its curricular programs and other related courses, such as agricultural engineering, among senior high school students in the province. (AD Cero) 

 Senior high school students holding their certificates of completion

----- DOC | Fire Prevention Month | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/03/fire-prevention-month/ | 2020-03-03 -----
With March as Fire Prevention Month, please see attached materials from the Bureau of Fire Protection to increase awareness and exercise safety on the said matter.

 ( All materials are produced and disseminated by BFP. )

----- DOC | CRVA's 3rd workshop conducted | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/crvas-3rd-workshop-conducted/ | 2020-02-27 -----
Representatives from the provincial and municipal agriculturist offices of Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, and Rizal attended the Adaptive Capacity Consultation Workshop at Hostel Tropicana on February 18-19, 2020.

 The activity is the third among the series of workshops being conducted for the Climate Risk Vulnerability Assessment (CRVA) study of the said provinces, which is a collaborative project with the Department of Agriculture Regional Field Office IVA. CRVA is under the umbrella of the Department of Agriculture project “Adaptation and Mitigation Initiative in Agriculture” (AMIA), which aims to establish climate-resilient agri-fisheries communities and build appropriate climate responsive financial and other support services.

 The project is headed by Dr. David L. Cero, dean of the College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT), and composed of members from the College of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR): Dr. Analita M. Magsino, Ms. Jo-an T. Ducducan, and Ms. Amyel Dale L. Cero.

 Consultants from the Geographic Innovations for Development Solutions, Inc. (GRIDS), headed by Mr. Milben Bragais, served as the resource persons of the workshop. (ADCero) 

 Participants of the CRVA Workshop

----- DOC | CvSU Team places 6th in PCMST Contest | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/cvsu-team-places-6th-in-pcmst-contest/ | 2020-02-20 -----
Competing against 35 other schools, CvSU bagged 6 th place in the overall ranking in the Philippine Consortium for Science, Mathematics and Technology Quiz Contest held last January 30 at Tarlac State University.

 BS Applied Mathematics students Masaito Nishitake and Cee Jay Bacud won as 4 th placer in the Math category while Dr. Evelyn O. Singson received an Honorary Service Award. Other members of the delegation include: Kate Eunice Singcol and Daryl Patrick Roco with Coach Sherine M. Cruzate for Biology; John Lhonard Valdez and Gilbert Bueno with Coach Orlando Delos Reyes for Physics; Cyrus Ivan Serwelas and Kristian Dominic Zafico with Coach Rene Betonio for Physics; Coach Paul Vincent Botin for Math; and Dr. Singson and Dr. Ma. Veronica Peñaflorida as Coordinators.

 CvSU also had a representation in the national body as Ms. Kate Eunice Singcol was elected as Business Manager of the PCSMT Student Organization.

 CvSU delegates participate in the PCMST 2020 
 Dr. Singson receives an award

----- DOC | TED, Educ Circle step up in General Assembly 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/ted-educ-circle-step-up-in-general-assembly-2020/ | 2020-02-20 -----
“Everyone can be a leader, but not everyone can step up.”

 Ms. Jane Marie C. Leonares-Gonzales motivated the members of Education Circle under the Teacher Education Department (TED) in a leadership training cum General Assembly 2020 held at the University Quadrangle last January 31.

 With the theme, “Forget Me, Remember We”, Ms. Leonares-Gonzales who served as guest speaker focused on selflessness in leadership as she shared her experiences as concrete examples of reality in a public school. Her talk became an eye opener for all future teachers to be leaders of love, effort and endurance as they dream more for the betterment of themselves, their families and the society.

 Dr. Ammie P. Ferrer, Dean of College of Education, emphasized in her inspirational message the similarities on the qualities of a leader that a teacher must possess. Meanwhile, Dr. Jake Raymund F. Fabregar, one of the advisers of the said student organization, challenged the participants on the importance of leading the organization well at present so they can lead the world better in the future.

 The event also became an avenue for Mr. Ryan Pitel, president of Education Circle, Mr. Aljon Sabado from the College of Education- Central Body System, and Mr. Gerald Anciro from the Central Student Government to share their organizations' accomplishment reports and encourage them to join other upcoming activities. A team building was also conducted in the afternoon session allowing students to have a sense of belongingness and to improve their moral and leadership skills. The excitement even heightened as CvSU Musikeros performed in a Mini Concert. ( JAlitagtag )

 CED Faculty with Ms. Leonares-Gonzales as she receives the Certificate of Appreciation

----- DOC | CvSU bags awards in Accounting Quiz Bowl 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/cvsu-bags-awards-in-accounting-quiz-bowl-2020/ | 2020-02-12 -----
It was a victory for the whole CvSU team who competed in the Philippine Institute of Certified Public Accountants (PICPA) – Cavite Chapter Accounting Quiz Bowl 2020 held at Rogationist College, Tagaytay City, February 9.

 Accompanied by Department of Accountancy Chair, Dr. Dolores L. Aguilar, and their coach, Mr. Djehan Astilla, the following BS Accountancy students won in the said competition: Tricia Mae Valenzuela (2 nd Place) and Tim Tagotong (3 rd Place) for Level 2; and Daryl Iglesias (4 th Place) and Mikaela Adrienne Ferrer (5 th Place) for Level 1. Being in the Top 2, Ms. Valenzuela is set to compete in the upcoming regional contest.

 The said competition was participated by various schools in Cavite which are offering Accountancy Courses.

 With the creation of the said department under the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies, CvSU has been offering the BS Accountancy course since 2008.

 CvSU representatives who joined and won in the PICPA – Cavite Chapter Accounting Quiz Bowl 2020
(Photo from: Mr. Djehan Astilla, CEMDS)

----- DOC | CvSU sets 83.33% passing rate in ALE 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/cvsu-sets-83-33-passing-rate-in-ale-2020/ | 2020-02-06 -----
New licensed architects were named as CvSU alumni set an 83.33% passing rate in the January 2020 Architect Licensure Examination.

 Ten out of 12 first-time takers passed the said exam administered last January 24 and 26. Among those successful were: Janine Alecar Ampo; John Jeffrey Angcaya; Mark Andrew Cebujano; Marvin De Asis; Marianne Rohail Dosal; Reiner Gatdula; Christian Laurente; Aileen Natalio; Janzeth Sacmar; and Maria Redzel Tolentino.

 A national passing rate of 55.72% was recorded as a total of 1,242 out of 2,229 examinees passed.

 To date, CvSU has produced 71 architects developed by the Architecture Unit of the Department of Civil Engineering under the College of Engineering and Information Technology.

 Tarpaulin shows the list of new architects from CvSU after passing June 2019 and January 2020 ALE

----- DOC | CvSU-SHS, Indang public schools receive computers from gov't | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/cvsu-shs-indang-public-schools-receive-computers-from-govt/ | 2020-02-05 -----
With three other public schools in Indang, CvSU-Science High School received ten computer units as Computer Laboratory for Cavite Public Schools Project which was launched by the Provincial Government, February 3.

 Principals and selected faculty members and students from Agus-os Elementary School, Dr. Alfredo Pio De Roda Elementary School, and Lumampong National High School- Calumpang Cerca Annex were also present during the turnover ceremony.

 Gov. Juanito  Victor “Jonvic” Remulla, Jr. explained that aside from such initiative, they are also working on providing free WiFi access up to the remote areas of Cavite. Meanwhile, Hon. Perfecto V. Fidel, municipal mayor, and Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, expressed their gratitude for being recipients of the project and for the development plan the governor has set for Cavite.

 An airconditioning unit was also donated along with the furnishing of the computer laboratory. Students are expected to utilize the units for their computer-related subjects and for research purposes.

 Public and academic officials collaborate to provide better services to the students through the computers donated by the Provincial Government.

----- DOC | LSPU Visits CvSU-UCC for ICT Policies | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/lspu-visits-cvsu-ucc-for-ict-policies/ | 2020-02-04 -----
Eight representatives from the Information and Communications Technology Services (ICTS) Offices of the different campuses of Laguna State Polytechnic University (LSPU) visited to conduct benchmarking on CvSU's ICT, February 4.

 Ms. Emeline C. Guevarra, Manager of the University Computer Center (UCC), together with Mr. Ace Amiel E. Malicsi and Mr. Bienvenido C. Sarmiento, entertained the questions from the following visitors: Mr. Edward S. Flores, OIC-Director; Mr. Neirro C. Ilagan, ICTS Chair-San Pablo; Mr. Flaviano Urrera, Jr., ICTS Chair-Siniloan; Mr. Rowan N. Elomina, ICTS Chair- Los Baños; Mr. Charles Alfred A. Cruz and Mr. Edwil John Sadsad, Programmers; and Mr. Nemencio C. Maniego, Jr. and Mr. Ron Espinuava, IT staff. Topics range from ICT policies, facilities and equipment to services offered by UCC to the stakeholders including students and faculty members.

 Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dr. David L. Cero, Dean of the College of Engineering and Information Technology, and Dir. Maria Soledad M. Lising of the International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office,  also welcomed them, stating that the University is also open for other possible partnerships that may arise from the visit.

 CvSU officials with LSPU-ICTS chairpersons and staff during the benchmarking 
 CvSU officials with LSPU-ICTS chairpersons and staff during the benchmarking

----- DOC | VP Mojica wins MWF Prize for Eng'g Excellence | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/02/vp-mojica-wins-mwf-prize-for-engg-excellence/ | 2020-02-04 -----
In recognition of his invention Bravura Coffee Roasting Machine, Engr. Ruel M. Mojica, Vice President for Research and Extension, was one of the four awarded in this year's Manila Water Foundation (MWF) Prize for Engineering Excellence during the Awarding Ceremony held at Seda Vertis North Hotel, Quezon City, February 3.

 The said competition organized by MWF recognizes notable inventions of engineers in the country, particularly those that have shown impact in uplifting the lives of the Filipinos. Bravura, known to be the cheapest vertical coffee roaster in the market, provided opportunities for farmers and cooperatives to fully optimize profit by selling roasted coffee instead of raw beans. The said machine was also built through participatory approach, considering farmers' capacity and cost limitations.

 “ Ang isang excellent engineer para sa akin ay may puso na nagmamahal para sa kababayan at may pusong handang tumulong para sa mga kababayan,” Engr. Mojica shares in a video presented during the awarding.

 Other awardees include Engr. Francis Aldrin Uy for the Universal Structural Health Evaluation and Recording System, Engr. Alexis Belonio for the Rice Husk Gassifier Technology and Dr. Michael Gragasin for the Compact Corn Mill and Impeller Rice Mill.

 Dr. Ruel Mojica receives the award together with three other engineers and MWF representatives (Photo from: Ms. Michelle Uy)

----- DOC | Newly Appointed University Personnel on January 2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/30/newly-promoted-university-personnel-on-january-2020/ | 2020-01-30 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Coffee training held at Café Severino 
 VP Mojica wins MWF Prize for Eng'g Excellence

----- DOC | Coffee training held at Café Severino | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/coffee-training-held-at-cafe-severino/ | 2020-01-29 -----
To further equip faculty members and staff on espresso and brew management, a training facilitated by two alumni was held at Café Severino, January 29.

 Serving as trainers were Ms. Shiryl Padillo and Mark Edward Rosanes who are graduates of CvSU's BS Hotel and Restaurant Management program in 2015. Aside from being baristas, they also serve as supervisors in the private companies they are working with.

 Instructors from the College of Education-Home Economics, Vocational and Technical Education Department, together with the staff of Hostel Tropicana, participated in the said training.

 Aside from discussion on certain coffee products, an additional lecture on coffee shop management was delivered by the said speakers.

 Padillo and Rosanes share experiences alongside demonstrations on espresso and brew 
 Padillo and Rosanes share experiences alongside demonstrations on espresso and brew

----- DOC | CvSU Supports 18-day Campaign to End VAW | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-supports-18-day-campaign-to-end-vaw/ | 2020-01-28 -----
CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center conducted the 18-Day Campaign to End Violence Against Women on December 9, 2019 at the International Convention Center, CvSU, Indang, Cavite.

 

 The activity was attended by 338 female and 330 male faculty members, employees, students, and stakeholders of different colleges and campuses of the university.

 Mr. Dionisio B. Dalusong, Chief of ther Institutional Development Division of DSWD Field Office IV-A, discussed the roles of men in achieving gender equality and the vision, mission, and objectives of Men Opposed to Violence Against Women Everywhere (MOVE). He also challenged and encouraged the participants to actively participate in the fight against violence against women.

 

 USec. Astravel P. Naik, Executive Director of Commission on Filipinos Overseas, discussed the mandates of their agency and  shared some cases they handled related to human trafficking.

 

 Mr. Dalusong also discussed the Gender-Based Violence (GBV) by pointing that GBV is a human rights violation and is punishable by law.

 Dr. Leyma L. Cero, VP for Planning and Development, and Dr. Julio G. Alava, VP for External and Business Affairs, stated their commitment to end violence against women.

 

 Recognition of partners of the GAD Resource Center, awarding of Certificates of the Winners of the Digital Poster Making, distribution of IEC materials, and promotion of the livelihood projects of the GAD-RC were also done during the activity.

----- DOC | CvSU Participates in the Provincial Women's Summit | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-participates-in-the-provincial-womens-summit/ | 2020-01-28 -----
CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center staff participated in the Provincial Women's Summit conducted by The Provincial Government of Cavite through its Cavite Gender and Development Focal Point System (CGFPS) on November 25, 2019 at Provincial Gymnasium, Trece Martires City, Cavite.

 

 The activity was attended by women's organizations, Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps) Benificfiaries, LGUs, barangay health workers, uniformed personnel of PNP, the academe and employees of the provincial government.

 In his opening message, Mr. Alvin Mojica, Provincial Administrator for Community Affairs, mentioned that he hopes that the event will be fruitful. Meanwhile, Hon. Irene Bencito, Executive Assistant and former Board Member recognized the efforts done by the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office of the Cavite GAD Focal Point System in facilitating the activity. She also stressed that the fight of women's right is also a fight of men since it protects the rights of their mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters.

 

 Hon. Lorna Sarabia Toledo, Tagaytay City Councilor, delivered the message of Mayor Agnes Tolentino emphasizing the important roles and influence of women in the development and the impact of this kind of opportunity to empowered women.

 Topics discussed during the summit were: Provincial Gender and Development Code by Ms. Mylene Sotolombo, Local Legislative staff Officer II; Alternative Learning System (ALS): An Instrument for Providing Lifelong Skills by Ms. Felisa C. Matel, Education Program Specialist; Magna Carta of Women by PLTCOL Atty. Arvie Paraon-Bueno of Cavite Provincial Police Office; and Programs provided by TESDA by Ms. Jenelyn Dino.

 Dr. Susan Tan, GAD Chair for Extension of CvSU, facilitated the Talk Show with the speakers. Questions raised deal with the best practices on mainstreaming GAD in the PNP, the ration of male and female beneficiaries of ALS, and the success rate of trainer in TESDA.

 

 Except for the additional information about the women's rights and opportunities, the summit also pampered the participants by providing beauty and wellness services and medical and dental check up.

----- DOC | GAD Staff Trained on MOV Preparation for Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/gad-staff-trained-on-mov-preparation-for-gender-mainstreaming-evaluation-framework/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, in-charge of GAD Resource Center (GADRC) and Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom, in-charge of GADRC Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, attended the Training on MOV Preparation for Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework (GMEF) from October 24 to 25, 2019 in Los Baños, Laguna. The activity was sponsored by the Regional Gender and Development Committee in partnership with Gender and Development Educators and Advocates (AGADe) Co.

 

 Ms. Maricar R. Chan, a Certified Member of the National GAD Resource Pool of the Philippine Commission on Women, discussed GAD Mainstreaming as a Strategy to Implement the Magna Carta of Women; Entry Points of Gender Mainstreaming; Enhanced Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework; GAD Mainstreaming Levels; GMEF Scoring Guide and Sheet; Guidelines in Administering the GMEF; and GMEF Descriptors Means of Verifications.

 Meanwhile, Ms. Maria Theresa Hernandez of Batangas State University discussed the Application of GMEF for Higher Education Institutions. She shared the BatSU experience in administering GMEF in their university.

 The second day was devoted in administering GMEF by different agencies/institutions. Each agency/institution presented the GMEF tool assessment based on the four entry points to gender mainstreaming.

----- DOC | IAPWDI Undergo Family and Life Development Orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/iapwdi-undergo-family-and-life-development-orientation/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Cavite State University GAD Resource Center sponsored an Orientation on Family and Life Development among members of Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc., (IAPWDI) on September 20, 2019 at the Persons with Disability Affairs Office, Poblacion IV,Indang, Cavite. The activity was attended by 11 male and 25 female members of IAPWDI.

 Ms. Merlie C. Nahilat, instructor at the CvSU-College of Arts and Sciences, started her discussion by giving a background on Family and Life Development. She also focused her discussion on caring and handling of children or persons with disability.

----- DOC | GADRC Conducts Basic GAD Orientation Among Student Leaders | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/gadrc-conducts-basic-gad-orientation-among-student-leaders/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Cavite State University, together with the Office of Student Affairs and Services, conducted a Leadership Seminar cum Student Organization Recognition with the theme “Excellency in Leadership for Global University 2020” on September 10, 2019 at the International Convention Center. The participants were composed of the student leaders/officers and advisers of different organizations.

 The activity aimed to develop camaraderie among student leaders; enhance the psychological growth towards socialized maturity; and orient the students on how gender shapes the roles of women and men in the society.

 Dr. Marie Gethsemanie P. Hilario, Professor at DeLa Salle University – Dasmariñas, talked about “Healthy Mind for Excellent Leaders” while Mr. Jerickson C. Baustista, former Student Regent of CvSU, discussed  “Excellence in Leadership”.

 Meanwhile, Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom-Leachon, in-charge of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of GAD Resource Center, discussed the differences between sex and gender, gender division of labor, and gender issues. An activity on sex and gender roles was also done. (SMROM-LEACHON)

----- DOC | CvSU GAD Agenda Reviewed and Revised | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-gad-agenda-reviewed-and-revised/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Pursuant to the Philippine Commission on Women Memorandum Circular 2018-04, CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center conducted the Review and Revision of the GAD Agenda from August 7 to 9, 2019 at the GAD Resource Center, Cavite State University, Indang, Cavite. The activity was divided into two parts: consultative meeting with the clients; and the Review and Revision of the GAD Agenda.

 This activity aimed to: identify programs, projects and activities to address gender issues in the university and the adopted communities; enhance the awareness of the participants; and value the GAD program as a tool in the development of a highly-gender responsive university.

 Dr. Henry O. Garcia, Vice President for Administrative and Support Services, welcomed the participants in behalf of the University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles. 
 The stakeholders from the different agencies discussed their programs and activities that they can share to the adopted communities of the university. They also shared their experiences while conducting different activities to the communities.

 Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, Certified National GAD Resource Pool of the Philippine Commission on Women, oriented and guided the participants on the preparation of the GAD Agenda and GAD Strategic Plan. A workshop on the identification of gender issues on different reading materials was also done.

 Dr. Nelia C. Cresiono, former GAD Director of CvSU, during the orientation on the preparation of GAD Agenda 
 The GAD Coordinators during the workshop on the identification of gender issues 
 The GAD Coordinators during the workshop on the identification of gender issues

----- DOC | CvSU GAD Resource Center supports Nat'l Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation Week | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-gad-resource-center-supports-natl-disability-prevention-and-rehabilitation-week/ | 2020-01-28 -----
CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center (CvSU-GADRC) supports the National Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation Week Celebration of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. with the theme “Lokal na Pamahalaan: Kabalikat sa Pagtupad ng Karapatan ng mga taong May Kapansanan” on July 19, 2019 at the International House II, CvSU, Indang, Cavite. The activity was participated by 53 male and 87 female members of IAPWDI including barangay officials.

 GADRC conducted Health Monitoring activity such as Random Blood Sugar Testing, Urinalysis, and Blood Pressure Monitoring among members of IAPWDI with the assistance of the students and faculty members of the College of Nursing.

 

 

 Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, former Director of CvSU-GAD, was also “Gawad ng Pagkilala at Pagpapahalaga” in recognition to the valuable help, assistance, and guide towards the success of IAPWDI.

----- DOC | RTU Visits CvSU-GADRC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/rtu-visits-cvsu-gadrc/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Rizal Technological University (RTU), headed by the Dr. Julius L. Meneses, VP for Program, Research and Extension Services, conducted a benchmaking activity in the university on July 2, 2019.

 One of the concerns of Dr. Emmie T. Ribaya, GAD Focal Chairperson of RTU, is in relation to the GAD practices of the University.

 Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom-Leachon, staff of GAD Resource Center, accompanied the guests in visiting the GAD Resource Center. She shared the practices of the university in terms of the four entry points to gender mainstreaming particularly in research, extension and instruction.

----- DOC | Dr. Cresino Receives a Certificate from RGADC-IVA | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/dr-cresino-receives-a-certificate-from-rgadc-iva/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, Director, GAD Resource Center receives a Certificate of Appreciation from the Regional GAD Committee for her invaluable contribution to Calabarzon RGADC as Cavite State University  GAD Director leading CvSU as a consistent Calabarzon Outstanding GAD Implementer-SUC Category from 2015-2018, and for being an active RGADC member from January 25, 2016 to June 1, 2019. The award was given on May 29, 2019 during the Second Quarter RGADC Meeting held at the NEAP Calabarzon, Malvar, Batangas.

 Dir. Luis G. Banua, Chair, RGADC; Ms. Josephine Parilla, Private Sector Representative, PATAMABA-WISE; Dr. Nelia, C. Cresino, Director, CvSU; and Engr. Landislao Andal, RDC Co-Chairperson during the awarding of certificates.

----- DOC | GADRC Facilitates Gender Sensitivity Seminar for Parents of Day Care Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/gadrc-facilitates-gender-sensitivity-seminar-for-parents-of-day-care-students/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Parents of Day Care students of Brgy. Lallana, Trece Martires City, Cavite participated in a Gender Sensitivity Seminar last June 20, 2019 held at the Covered Court of the said barangay. The activity is part of the Memorandum of Agreement between the University and Brgy. Lallana.

 Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom-Leachon started with the objectives of Gender and Development as well as the services offered by the university. She enumerated the differences between sex and gender and involved the participants by asking them of the things only a woman can do and vice versa. Ms. Lailanie Leachon, BNS, answered that women can bear children and can breast feed babies while men cannot.

 

 During the discussion of the gender division of labor, Ms. Rom-Leachon explained that the work of men and women can be categorized as productive, reproductive, and community activities. Productive activities are the paid activities done outside the home and in public arena while reproductive activities are the unpaid activities done inside the home. Meanwhile, community activities include the collective organization of social activities and services in the community.

 Moreover, the “Impossible Dream” video clip was also presented showing the issues faced by women like double-multiple workload, common situation of a family where both parents work outside the home, and economic marginalization with women being paid less than a husband who is devoting the same number of hours of work. In addition, all the household chores remain as woman's responsibility.

----- DOC | MOVE Attends Training on Gender Analysis and Case Management | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/move-attends-training-on-gender-analysis-and-case-management/ | 2020-01-28 -----
CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center (GADRC) sponsored a training-workshop on Gender Analysis and Referral and Case Management among MOVE officers and members on May 28-29, 2019 at Monte Vista Hotsprings and Conference Resort, Calamba City, Laguna.

 Ms. Lovely S. Mores, Senior Economic Development Specialist, NEDA Region IV-A and a Certified PCW GAD Resource Pool, discussed the Basic GAD Orientation and Gender Analysis Tools such as the Harmonized GAD Guidelines. Workshop on the evaluation of project proposal and accomplishment report was also done on the first day.

 

 Dr. Marietta C. Mojica, GAD Chair for Research, discussed the Parts of Program/Project Proposal and the Accomplishment Report.

 On the second day, Ms. Precyl T. Ramos, Social Welfare Officer III, Cavite Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office tackled Referral and Case Management. A role playing activity on how to handle cases was also done during the session.

 

 In addition, the participants were oriented on the use of Gender Fair Language, Anti-Rape Law of 1997 and Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003, and Anti-Violence Against Women and their Children Act of 2004 by Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, Mr. John Renz D. Emelo and Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom, GADRC staff. In addition, Dr. Susan G. Tan, GAD Chair for Extension, also discussed the Anti Sexual Harassment Act of 1995.

----- DOC | Seminar on Community First Aid and Basic Life Support Held | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/seminar-on-community-first-aid-and-basic-life-support-held/ | 2020-01-28 -----
On April 12, 2019, CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center conducted a Seminar on Community First Aid and Basic Life Support among members of Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc at the Persons with Disability Affairs Office, Poblacion IV, Indang, Cavite.

 

 Ms. Jamaica Rose Cerrero, instructor from the College of Nursing and an Accredited First Aider of Red Cross, discussed the roles and responsibilities of a first aider. She emphasized that the objectives of first aid is to alleviate suffering, prevent added/further injury or danger, and prolong life. Ms. Cerrero also showed the suggested contents of a first aid kit and discussed the use and functions of each items. With the help of the participants, She also demonstrated the different styles in carrying/assisting an injured patient.

 

 Mr. Romulo Telmo, vice president of IAPWDI, mentioned in his closing remarks that the seminar imparted an important knowledge that they can apply not only to themselves but also to the members of the community.

----- DOC | GADRC Joins Meeting of the Federation of Persons with Disability – Cavite, Inc. | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/gadrc-joins-meeting-of-the-federation-of-persons-with-disability-cavite-inc/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc. hosted the 3 rd Regular Monthly Meeting of the Federation of Persons with Disability – Cavite, Inc. in partnership with the CvSU Gender and Development Resource Center (GAD-RC) last March 20, 2019 at International House II, CvSU, Indang Cavite.

 The meeting was attended by 36 females and 25 males from different municipalities of Cavite.

 In his message, Dr. Reynaldo Samonte, Administrative Consultant and representative of the Mayor of Indang, encouraged the group to know and fight for their rights as Persons with Disability (PWD).

 

 Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, staff from GADRC, presented the Operation of Center with emphasis on the Vision, Mission, Goals, Objectives and Services offered which include: capacity building; seminar/ workshop/ orientation/ training, livelihood/entrepreneurship; and counseling.

 

 Meanwhile, Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom, staff from GADRC, presented the Accomplishment Report of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability Inc. in partnership with the GADRC. A video testimony of Mr. Florian H. de Borja, President of the Indang Association of Persons with Disability, Inc., showed the impact of the GAD activities to their association.

 

 Dr. John U. Nakpil, an optometrist, was also present during the meeting. Dr. Nakpil educated the group about Vision Sciences, Vision Training and Vision Therapy. He showed several photos of eye defects which he was able to correct in more than a hundred special case patients together with patients with Vision Related learning disability. He was able to help special case patients to gain better vision and become more productive in their lives.

----- DOC | PWD of Kayquit, Trained on Doormat Making | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/pwd-of-kayquit-trained-on-doormat-making/ | 2020-01-28 -----
As part of the extension program of the Gender and Development Resource Center of the University, training on doormat making was conducted on March 17, 201. Participants include 13 female and 4 male members of Persons with Disability of Brgy. Kayquit III, Indang, Cavite.

 Ms. Lilia G. Tiglao, barangay secretary, served as the trainer. This activity was initiated by Mr. Arnold B. Constante, President of the Persons with Disability of the said barangay.

 After the demonstration on the process, the participants were allowed to make their own doormats.

----- DOC | GADRC Sponsors “Building Self-Esteem” | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/gadrc-sponsors-building-self-esteem/ | 2020-01-28 -----
GAD Resource Center sponsored a seminar on “Building Self-Esteem” among six male and 24 female members of Indang Association of Persons with Disability (IAPWDI) on February 15, 2019 at the Persons with Disability Affairs Office. This activity is part of the Extension Program of the GAD-RC.

 Dr. Cecilia B. Banaag, Dean of the College of Education, served as resource speaker on “Building Self-Esteem” and helped the participants address the challenges they are facing.

 

 “ May panahon ho ba na nawawala ang tiwala ninyo sa sarili? Nagkakaroon kayo ng agam-agam na magagawa ninyo ang isang bagay? May panahon na di ninyo matanggap ang inyong sarili o kalagayan? Saan po nagmumula ang ganito ninyong pagkilos? Ano ang dapat gawin upang makaalis sa ganitong sitwasyon? ” Dr. Banaag asked the participants.

 
 After the activities, Dr. Banaag explained what self-esteem is. She emphasized that it comes from parental messages, cultural/societal messages, and media. She also explained the characteristics of a person with low self-esteem and high self-esteem. The session ended with a discussion on how to enhance self-esteem .

----- DOC | Cresino Serves as Resource Speaker on GAD at PUP | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cresino-serves-as-resource-speaker-on-gad-at-pup/ | 2020-01-28 -----
Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, Director of Gender and Development (GAD), served as resource speaker during the Seminar-Workshop on GAD at the Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Sto. Tomas Branch, Batangas on January 29, 2019.  This activity is part of the celebration of the 27 th Founding Anniversary of the said university with the theme “Promoting Gender and Development through Relevant, Scientific and Quality Education”.

 The first part of the seminar workshop focused on socio-historical background, laws and mandates, gender division of labor, and gender issues. The second part focused on the difference between sex and gender and gender sexuality.  Sexual orientation, and gender identity and expressions were also covered.

----- DOC | Int'l Research Collab Presented in UK | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/intl-research-collab-presented-in-uk/ | 2020-01-27 -----
Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, researcher and CvSU-Imus campus administrator, presented the developments in a research partnership with the University of the Philippines-Los Baños (UPLB), University of Eastern Philippines and the Bureau of Animal Industry as she joined the Newton Fund Swine and Poultry Interim Workshop in Bracknell, UK last January 13-15, 2020.

 The project entitled “Low-cost Portable Molecular Diagnostic Platform for Rapid Detection of Select Poultry Pathogens (LMDP) in Bicol, CALABARZON and MIMAROPA Regions of the Philippines” is a Newton Fund/DA-Biotech Project that works as a component of a bigger LMDP-related project tie-up with UK universities such as Brunel University London, Lancaster University, and University of Surrey.

 With Dr. Dela Cruz are UK fellows namely Prof. Wamadeva Balachandran, principal investigator from Brunel University, and Dr. Roberto La Ragione of the University of Surrey School of Veterinary Medicine; and Filipino scientists namely Dr. Dionisio G. Alvindia, Director of DA-Biotech and Dr. Dennis Umali from UPLB.

 The United Kingdom Research and Innovation Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council organized the three-day workshop designed to tackle progress of Newton Fund projects in East and Southeast Asia.

 (from left to right) Dr. Aurore Poirier, Dr. Dela Cruz, Dr. La Ragione, Dr. Umali and Dr. Branavan Manoharanehru beside the poster of LMDP-project in the Philippines

----- DOC | CAS spearheads PFA orientation; volunteers in CFS | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cas-spearheads-pfa-orientation-volunteers-in-cfs/ | 2020-01-25 -----
Aside from donation drive, the College of Arts and Sciences spearheaded a Psychological First Aid Orientation and Training to equip volunteers in providing counseling to the evacuees affected by Taal eruption. More than 160 students, faculty and staff from the University system participated in the said training conducted last January 21 and 23.

 Dr. Paul Hilario and Dr. Cecilia Banaag trained the participants on how to prepare themselves as they help others in times of crisis. They also emphasized the importance of proper listening allowing evacuees to share their thoughts without interrupting them with too much questions.

 Meanwhile, Psychology and Social Work faculty and students facilitated art therapy sessions and interactive games for kids in the Child-Friendly Spaces (CFS) at Matagbak Elementary School in Alfonso. Needs assessment were also conducted in centers located in Alfonso, Bailen and Magallanes.

 Volunteers prepare for counseling through FPA Orientation and Training 
 Volunteers prepare for counseling through FPA Orientation and Training 
 Volunteers prepare for counseling through FPA Orientation and Training

----- DOC | CCJ conducts faculty and staff workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/ccj-conducts-faculty-and-staff-workshop/ | 2020-01-22 -----
It's a two-day Faculty and Staff Seminar-Workshop and Consultative Meeting for the College of Criminal Justice as they prepare for the 2 nd Semester, AY 2019-2020.

 The said workshop was scheduled this January 22 and 23 at Hostel Tropicana. It focuses on integrating gender sensitivity in their classes while also utilizing technology in creating an enhanced learning environment for their students.

 The following are the topics covered in the said activity: Orientation on Gender Sensitivity and Integrating Gender in your Syllabus (Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, PCW-NGRP Member); Academic Integrity and Disruptive Behavior (Ms. Sharon M. Isip, OSAS Dean); Creating a Virtual Learning Environment (Ms. Lady Aileen Orsal, PACO Director); Effective Powerpoint Presentation (Mr. Tirso Arreza, OVPRE Staff); and Managing Workplace Stress (Ar. Eugene Sibulo Aguilar, UAP-Green AP).

 Dr. Cresino re-orients participants on gender sensitivity

----- DOC | DOE partners with CvSU on R&D | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/doe-partners-with-cvsu-on-rd/ | 2020-01-22 -----
Partnership on the conduct of various research and development activities for emerging energy technologies was sealed between Cavite State University and Department of Energy during the Inception meeting of the DOE-funded projects held at Hostel Tropicana, January 22.

 In a message from Mr. Patrick T. Aquino, Director of the Energy Utilization Management Bureau, he stated that outputs of current research and development activities may serve as a guide for policy makers in terms of further utilization of electronic vehicles. It was supported by Ms. Lourdes Maria A. Capricho, Chief of Alternative Fuels and Energy Division, as she emphasized on the contribution of the project on the security of energy supply in the country. She also introduced the members of DOE Counterpart who will assist and supervise the implementation of the projects.

 On the other hand, Dr. Camilo A. Polinga who serves as the Project Manager discussed the overview of the project and introduced the program team. The following are the projects included in the said program: Development and Fabrication of Energy Harnessing Equipment to be headed by Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar; Assessment of the Actual Road Performance of the Hybrid Electric Vehicles in Local Traffic and Road Conditions in the Philippines with Dr. Ariel G. Santos as Assistant Project Leader; and Development of TESDA-Aligned Electric Vehicle Technician Course Module to be led by Prof. Danielito R. Escaño.

 Representatives of DOE, CvSU and UST attended the Inception Meeting 
 Members of the CvSU Project team consulted their DOE counterpart 
 Members of the CvSU Project team consulted their DOE counterpart

----- DOC | CVMBS Joins Inter-Agency Vet Mission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvmbs-joins-inter-agency-vet-mission/ | 2020-01-22 -----
Helping animals affected by Taal eruption, the College of Veterinary Medicine and Bio-Medical Sciences joined an inter-agency vet mission conducted last January 18.

 Faculty members Dr. Melbourne Talactac, Dr. Rhoda Baquiran and Dr. Loren Borja assisted in the said activity, together with 30 students of the said college. An estimate of 64 horses and 100 dogs and cats were given free check-up and medication including bathing to remove hardened soil. The said vet mission was conducted in a horse farm in Brgy. Zambat, Tagaytay City and a cat and dog shelter in Brgy. Cabulusan, Magallanes.

Before the actual activity, an inter-agency meeting for the vet mission was held last January 15 at the Sangguniang Panlalawigan Bldg and was attended by the Cavite provincial vet, CvSU-CVMBS, Cavite Veterinary Medical Association, representatives of LGUs and other stakeholders.

 CVMBS, together with representatives from other agencies, helped animals affected by Taal eruption. Photos from CVMA and Dr. Talactac 
 Photos from CVMA and Dr. Talactac 
 Photos from CVMA and Dr. Talactac

----- DOC | 8 Interns Set for Vietnam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/8-interns-set-for-vietnam/ | 2020-01-20 -----
All set! Eight student-teachers from Cavite State University are scheduled to fly to Vietnam this January 28, 2020 as part of the 2019 Student Internship Abroad Program (SIAP).

 CvSU administrators with the 2019 SIAP participants after the pre-departure orientation 
 The following student-teachers taking up Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English will be trained in various learning centers of Thai Nguyen University of Agriculture and Forestry: Christian John B. Pulido and Mary Ahn Dee P. Cairme (CvSU-Cavite City); Melandro F. Soriano and Irish Angel D. Vargas (CvSU-Tanza); Shiela Mae R. Padilla (CvSU-Carmona); Freszha B. de Jesus and Caren A. Diones (CvSU-Imus); and Charlene M. Gonzales (CvSU-Main).

 In a pre-departure orientation held January 20, CvSU administrators encouraged them to take every opportunity to learn through this international practicum training while also blending in with the culture of the Vietnamese society. Helping one another is also essential as they will be placed in a different environment. John Carlo Diloy, former SIAP participant, emphasized that the training can be very beneficial to their own growth as professional teachers citing some experiences he had during his time.

----- DOC | President's Message | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/presidents-message/ | 2020-01-20 -----
President's message 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Supply, Delivery and Installation of Desktop Computer – Imus Campus 
 8 Interns Set for Vietnam

----- DOC | FY 2019 Procurement Monitoring Report | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/fy-2019-procurement-monitoring-report/ | 2020-01-16 -----
PMR 2019 – Rosario Campus 

 PMR 2019 – Naic Campus 

 PMR 2019 – PB – Infra 

 PMR 2019 – Alternative Mode of Procurement 

 PMR 2019 – Goods and Consulting Services

----- DOC | CvSU relaunches RELIEF for Taal evacuees | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-relaunches-relief-for-taal-evacuees/ | 2020-01-15 -----
With the number of evacuees increasing due to Taal Volcano eruption, Cavite State University re-launched RELIEF which stands for Research and Extension Life-Changing Initiatives for the Empowerment of Filipinos, serving as the University's project mobilizing relief operations in affected areas and evacuation sites.

 Residents dropped by Admin Building to charge their gadgets 
 Residents dropped by Admin Building to charge their gadgets 
 Extension Services served as the organizing body for the relief operations. Preferred donations include ready-to-eat food, water, hygienic kits, baby supplies, clothes, beddings, towels, pillows, blankets among others. Monetary donations are also accepted to be allocated to needed supplies. Coloring books, crayons and toys are also needed for psycho-social support to children.

 The Administration Building was also opened as a free charging station considering the power interruption in Indang last January 14. Around 90 clients were served and an estimate of 260 items including cellphones, tablets, laptops, powerbanks, flashlights and other rechargeable appliances like electric fans were brought. Drinking water will also be supplied to the evacuees.

 Collected donations will be distributed to families sheltered in identified evacuation sites in Bailen, Alfonso and Indang. Donations and other queries can be directed to the Extension Services Office located at the NCRDEC building.

----- DOC | Admission Updates : Change of Schedules | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/admission-updates-change-of-schedules/ | 2020-01-14 -----
IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER–

 JANUARY 20 TO MARCH 30, 2020: online application

 JANUARY 27 TO MARCH 30, 2020: submission of printed application form with complete   documents and schedule of exam

  

 For further details about the admission process, click here.

----- DOC | CvSU ranks 1st in November 2019 CLE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-ranks-1st-in-november-2019-cle/ | 2020-01-09 -----
With 100% passing rate for first-time takers, Cavite State University was recognized as the Top Performing School in the November 2019 Criminologist Licensure Examination held from November 29 to December 1.

 An over-all performance of 98.78% was recorded as 81 out of 82 takers from the College of Criminal Justice successfully passed. It was also a victory for CvSU-Bacoor City Campus with 93.75% passing rate as 15 out of 16 first-time takers succeeded.

 The results of the CLE were released by the Philippine Regulatory Commission yesterday, January 8.

 Photo Source: College of Criminal Justice 
 Photo Source: CvSU-Bacoor City Campus, Department of Criminology

----- DOC | CvSU, Univ of Liverpool meet up for TNE | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/cvsu-liverpool-meet-up-for-tne/ | 2020-01-06 -----
CvSU, Univ of Liverpool meet up for TNE 

 Cavite State University met with representatives from University of Liverpool Center of Excellence in Sustainable Food Systems for a partnership workshop organized by British Council held in Ortigas, January 6.

 The discussion focused mainly on how they operate and implement transnational education, an essential information needed in the validation and improvement of the database being developed under Program HECTOR Higher Education Cooperation towards Transnational Education Open Resource which is funded by the Commission on Higher Education.

 Representatives from CvSU include Dr. Rhodora Crizaldo and Prof. Jason Maniacop from the College of Education. Also present were the following: Atty. Lily Freida Milla, Director for International Affairs of CHED, Department of Science and Technology, Techno-Gabay, Food and Nutrition Research Institute and Department of Agriculture, together with other Philippine higher education institutions with TNE programs in UK universities and British Council.

----- DOC | Admission Requirements and Procedures | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2020/01/admission-requirements-and-procedures/ | 2020-01-06 -----
ADMISSION PROCEDURES: 

 Senior high graduate and ALS passers 

 
 
 
  Undergo online application using the link ( https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ ) to encode completely the needed information in the application form.

  Print the accomplished form in A4-size bond paper and submit together with the certified true copy of documentary requirements at the Office of Student Affairs And Services (OSAS) from Mondays to Thursdays 7am – 6pmn for the schedule of exam

  Undergo exam as scheduled

  Get the exam result and Notice of Admission

  Undergo medical exam

  Submit original documents at University Registrar Office for enrolment

 

 
 Transferees and Second Coursers 

 
 
 
  Undergo online application using the link ( https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ ) to encode completely the needed information in the application form.

  Print the accomplished form in A4-size bond paper and submit together with the certified true copy of documentary requirements at the Office of Student Affairs And Services (OSAS) from Mondays to Thursdays 7am – 6pm

  Undergo college interview/evaluation as endorsed by OSAS

  Undergo exam as scheduled

  Get the exam result and Notice of Admission

  Undergo medical exam

  Submit original documents at University Registrar Office for enrolment

 

 
 Foreign students 

 
 
 
  Undergo online application using the link ( https://registrar.cvsu.edu.ph/osas/ ) to encode completely the needed information in the application form and print it on A4-size bond paper.

  Show the certified true copy of documentary requirements at the University Registrar Office for verification

  Submit the accomplished form and requirements at the Office of Student Affairs And Services (OSAS) from Mondays to Thursdays 7am – 6pm

  Pay P150 exam fee at Cashier Office and undergo exam as scheduled

  Get the exam result and Notice of Admission

  Undergo medical exam

  Submit original documents at University Registrar Office for enrolment

 

 
 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 

 Senior high graduate 

 
 
 
 Certified true copies of:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Grade-12 Report Card

 Good Moral Certificate

 

 

 
 
 
 
 2 copies of 1×1 ID picture with name tag

 Short ordinary folder

 

 
 ** For students who wish to take Architecture, Computer Science, and Engineering courses – you need to bring your Grade-11 Report Card for evaluation 

 ** Engineering courses only accepts STEM strand 

 ** Grade requirement- 

 
 
 
 Course 
 Grade Requirement 

 
 · Engineering courses

 · Architecture

 · Computer Science 
 85 and above in Math, Science and English subjects 

 
 · Education courses 
 Final grade of 85 and above 

 
 
 ALS passers 

 
 
 
 Certified true copies of:

 

 
 – Certificate of Rating

 – Good Moral Certificate

 
 
 
 2 copies of 1×1 ID picture with name tag

 Short ordinary folder

 

 
 ** ALS passers will only be accepted to non-board courses 

 Transferee 

 
 
 
 Certified true copies of:

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Transcript of Records or Copy of Grades (duly signed by Registrar)

 Honorable Dismissal

 Good Moral Certificate

 

 

 
 
 
 
 Photocopy of NBI clearance

 2 copies of 1×1 ID picture with name tag

 Short ordinary folder

 

 
 ** Grade requirement for transferee is GPA of 2.00 (equivalent of 85%) or better and no failed grade. 

 
 
 
 ** No transferee or shiftee shall be admitted for the following: 

 ·      Engineering programs – after the first year level 

 ·      other programs – after the second year level 

 ·      Doctor of Veterinary Medicine – after the fourth year level 

 
 
 Second Courser 

 
 
 
 Certified true copies of:

 

 
 – Transcript of Records

 – Transfer of Credential Certificate

 
 
 
 2 copies of 1×1 ID picture with name tag

 Short ordinary folder

 

 
 Foreign Students 

 1. Certified True Copy of the following:

 
 
 
 
 
 Report Card or Transcript of Records From The High School Last Attended

 Good Moral Certificate

 Honorable Dismissal (for transferee)

 Student Visa (Passport)

 Police Clearance from their Country of origin and

 authenticated Affidavit of Financial Support

 

 

 
 2. 2 Copies Of 1×1 ID Picture With Name Tag

 3. Short Ordinary Folder

----- DOC | NCEC Vol 1. Issue 3 – NCEC 2.0 Day 3 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/12/ncec-vol-1-issue-1-ncec-2-0-day-3/ | 2019-12-05 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 NCEC Vol 1. Issue 2 – NCEC 2.0 Day 2 
 Admission Requirements and Procedures

----- DOC | NCEC Vol 1. Issue 2 – NCEC 2.0 Day 2 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/12/ncec-vol-1-issue-1-ncec-2-0-day-2/ | 2019-12-05 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 NCEC Vol 1. Issue 1 – NCEC 2.0 Kicks Off 
 NCEC Vol 1. Issue 3 – NCEC 2.0 Day 3

----- DOC | NCEC Vol 1. Issue 1 – NCEC 2.0 Kicks Off | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/12/ncec-vol-1-issue-1-ncec-2-0-kicks-off/ | 2019-12-04 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 CvSU Hosts 2nd National Coffee Education Congress 
 NCEC Vol 1. Issue 2 – NCEC 2.0 Day 2

----- DOC | CvSU Hosts 2nd National Coffee Education Congress | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/11/cvsu-hosts-2nd-national-coffee-education-congress/ | 2019-11-28 -----
Download Flyer 
 
 

 
 
 The Cavite State University (CvSU) Don Severino De Las Alas Campus, through the National Coffee Research, Development and Extension Center (NCRDEC) will play host to this year's 2 nd National Coffee Education Congress (NCEC) with the theme: "Unifying Industry Initiatives Toward Sustainability of Philippine Coffee" from December 3 to 5.

 CvSU President Dr. Hernando D. Robles will officially welcome some 200 participants consisting of researchers, stakeholders and exhibitors from various Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and partner agencies in the country.

 In an interview with Engr. Gerry M. Castillo, NCRDEC Director, the Congress is aimed to converge research and extension initiatives of all coffee stakeholders, which are contributory to the development of the Philippine coffee industry.

 The 3-day event will also include plenary sessions, research and extension paper and poster presentations, coffee cupping competition, barista competition, exhibits, meeting of PhilCoffeeNet members, National Coffee DocuFest, coffee educational tour, launching of the book cover and call for nominees “8 Outstanding Coffee Personalities in the Philippines,” launching of the project “1 Million Cups of Coffee to Success,” among others. Cash prizes are at stake for winners in different competitions.

 It was in November 2017 when CvSU hosted the 1 st NCEC as well as the 1 st Southeast Asian Coffee Education Congress (SEACEC) in October 2018.

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Psychology Laboratory Supplies Materials and Equipment for Bacoor Campus (Second Posting) | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/11/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-psychology-laboratory-supplies-materials-and-equipment-for-bacoor-campus-second-posting/ | 2019-11-28 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 
 Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference 

 
 ITB 

 BID DOCS 

 PLAN 

 SPECS – A 

 SPECS – B 

 SPECS – C 

 SPECS – D 

 SPECS – E

----- DOC | HECTOR Project Officially Commenced | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/11/hector-project-officially-commenced/ | 2019-11-20 -----
The Higher Education Cooperation towards Transnational Education Open Resource (HECTOR) project of Cavite State University (CvSU) and Technological University of the Philippines (TUP) has officially commenced effective October 1, 2019.

 To have a grasp of the project, a local inception meeting was held at the Lasap Hall of Cavite State University, Don Severino de las Alas Campus last October 14 with the team and university officials headed by president, Dr. Hernando D. Robles.

 In his message, Dr. Robles expressed his full support to the project. “This project will definitely raise awareness on TNE and will foster cooperation among HEIs in intensifying the landscape for TNE operation and implementation through advocacy and capacity building of HEIs on TNE,” Robles adds.

 Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo, in her opening remarks pointed out that HECTOR is very timely. “This project is our response to Education 4.0 and our support to CHED's initiatives on internationalization. Likewise, HECTOR is the key driver of CHED in its role of formulating a “coherent national strategy” to encourage and facilitate the establishment of the most effective forms of TNHE programs and institutions in the country,” she stresses.

 Meanwhile, Prof. Jason R. Maniacop gave an overview of HECTOR and introduced the Team who will be working on the said project, while Prof. Alfredo A. Venzon presented the details of the project work plan.

 Also present during the meeting were Drs. Camilo A. Polinga, vice president for academic affairs and Ruel M. Mojica, vice president for research and extension. Staff of the Internal Audit were also invited to enlighten the Team of the procurement processes and budget management.

 Following the local inception was a preparatory meeting held last October 18 at the British Council in Taguig City with Ms. Lotus Postrado, head of education and Mr. Aaron Joshua Macapagal as facilitators. The meeting discussed the agenda on how to develop a logical framework for HECTOR based on the scope of the project, objectives and deliverables, finalize the project management structure and governance of HECTOR, review the work plan specifically on the procurement and budget management and project milestones, develop initial draft and schedule of M&E, and  finalize the schedule of the Grand Inception Meeting to include attendees such as  advisory group, project consultants, project team and selected administrative support services personnel of CvSU.

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Psychology Laboratory Supplies, Materials and Equipment for Bacoor Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-psychology-laboratory-supplies-materials-and-equipment-for-bacoor-campus/ | 2019-10-31 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 
 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 
 Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference 

 
 ITB 

 BID DOCS 

 PLAN 

 SPECS – A 

 SPECS – B 

 SPECS – C

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Hotel and Restaurant Management (HRM) Laboratory Supplies, Materials and Equipment for Bacoor Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-hotel-and-restaurant-management-hrm-laboratory-supplies-materials-and-equipment-for-bacoor-campus/ | 2019-10-31 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 
 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 
 Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference 

 
 ITB 

 BID DOCS 

 PLAN 

 SPECS – A 

 SPECS – B 

 SPECS – C 

 SPECS – D 

 SPECS – E

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Science Laboratory Supplies, Materials and Equipment for Bacoor Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-science-laboratory-supplies-materials-and-equipment-for-bacoor-campus/ | 2019-10-31 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 
 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 
 Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference 

 
 ITB 

 BID DOCS 

 SPECS – A 

 SPECS – B

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Criminology Laboratory Supplies, Materials and Equipment for Bacoor Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-criminology-laboratory-supplies-materials-and-equipment-for-bacoor-campus/ | 2019-10-31 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 
 Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 
 Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference 

 
 ITB 

 Bid Docs 

 BOQ -A 

 BOQ -B 

 BOQ -C 

 BOQ -D 

 BOQ -E 

 Plan

----- DOC | CvSU, TUP to undertake CHED funded HECTOR Project | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/cvsu-tup-to-undertake-ched-funded-hector-project/ | 2019-10-23 -----
INDANG, Cavite – Cavite State University (CvSU), Don Severino de las Alas Campus here and the Technological University of the Philippines (TUP), Taguig will undertake the project, Higher Education Cooperation towards Transnational Education Open Resource or HECTOR.

 The Commission on Higher Education (CHED) funds this two-year project, with an attempt to develop an open resource system for higher education institutions in the country providing transnational education (TNE) services in support of the TNE initiatives of CHED. The British Council, aligned with its current partnership with CHED on internationalization (IHE) and TNE, also supports this undertaking.

 On August 28, 2019, President Rodrigo Duterte signed Republic Act 11448, a law establishing and administering a transnational higher education in the Philippines. Under the law, transnational higher education includes all modes of delivery of higher education study programs, including distance education and study-abroad programs, which involve education systems of another country different from the state the TNHE operates.

 Spearheaded by Ms. Lotus Postrado and Mr. Aaron Joshua Macapagal of the British Council, a kick off activity was conducted to orient the Team on Internationalization of Higher Education and TNE last August 1. Mr. Kevin Van Cauter, British Council's Senior Adviser of Higher Education Partnerships and Transnational Education shared his knowledge on IHE, TNE and related initiatives on TNE database management.

 CvSU Team is composed of Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo as the principal investigator, Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Profs.  Marlon R. Pereña, Jason R. Maniacop and Alfredo A. Venzon as co-investigators. Profs. Simeon E. Daez, Allan Robert C. Solis, and Messrs. Bryan R. Ayos and Rodney B. Javier are the project support staff. Meanwhile, Dr. Selfa J. Briones leads the TUP Team as collaborator, and Ms. Josephine B. Andong, Mr. Julius Delfin A. Silang, and Mr. Rommel Dalisay as project support staff.

 According to Dr. Crizaldo, prior to the full implementation of the project, a proposed work plan was submitted and presented focusing on the four components, namely: profiling of TNE providers and assessment of TNE status in the Philippines; development of HECTOR in the Philippines; capacity building on TNE for HEIs in the Philippines; and promotion and advocacy of TNE in the Philippines. “This project also intends to provide a descriptive analysis of the profile of TNE and an assessment of the current status and experiences of HEIs on TNE operation and implementation,” Crizaldo concludes.

----- DOC | 2nd National Coffee Education Congress | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/2nd-national-coffee-education-congress/ | 2019-10-21 -----
2nd National Coffee Education Congress 

 December 3-5, 2019

 Cavite State University Main Campus

 Hosted by: Office of the VP for Research and Extension and the National Coffee Research Development and Extension Center

----- DOC | Co-Hosting of the Philippine Society for Public Administration International Conference | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/10/co-hosting-of-the-philippine-society-for-public-administration-international-conference/ | 2019-10-08 -----
Development Academy of the Philippines

Tagaytay City, Cavite

Cavite State University International Convention Center

Indang, Cavite

 November 7-9, 2019

----- DOC | Normative financing workshop held | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/09/normative-financing-workshop-held/ | 2019-09-12 -----
A Normative Financing Workshop was held on September 10, 2019 to ensure complete and accurate reporting of the AY 2019-2020 Higher Education Data/Information of Cavite State University through the CHED Electronic Collection and Knowledge System (CHECKS).

 

 The workshop was participated in by the college and campus registrars and staff of the offices concerned. Forms on institutional profile, curricular programs, faculty, allotments, research and extension data, and graduates were prepared and uploaded to the system.

 

 One of the purposes for the collection of up-to-date and complete data is for the rational allocation of funds to state universities and colleges.

 

 The workshop was facilitated by the Office of the Vice President for Planning and Development in cooperation with the University Registrar's Office.

----- DOC | CvSU joins 5S good housekeeping program | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/09/cvsu-joins-5s-good-housekeeping-program/ | 2019-09-12 -----
Cavite State University was selected by the Development Academy of the Philippines as one of the 20 beneficiary agencies for the program: Transforming Public Service Delivery Through 5S Good Housekeeping: Culture Building for Quality Service in the Government.

 

 As a beneficiary agency, CvSU is expected to participate in all the program-related activities. One of which is the Training of Trainers on 5S Good Housekeeping on September 9-13, 2019 at the DAP Conference Center in Tagaytay City.

 

 CvSU's participation in the program shows its commitment to improve the quality of its services through the development and implementation of a quality workplace.

----- DOC | ISO 9001:2015 surveillance visit awaits CvSU | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/09/iso-90012015-surveillance-visit-awaits-cvsu/ | 2019-09-11 -----
After almost a year of acquiring ISO 9001:2015 QMS certification from AJA Registrars, CvSU now awaits the surveillance visit scheduled on October 7, 2019.

 Series of meetings was conducted in August to complete the Audit Findings Reports (AFRs) and Correction and Corrective Action Reports (CCARs), evaluate internal auditors and discuss plans for improvement.

 The CvSU Quality Manual was approved thru BOR Res. No. 42, s. 2018 covering the quality procedures on document control, records control, internal quality audit, and corrective action. It can be recalled that Stage 1 Audit was conducted on September 11 and 12, 2018 with two auditors and three findings.  While Stage 2 Audit was conducted on October 9 and 10, 2018 with six auditors and four minor findings.

 Comparing the internal quality audit conducted from May 21 to June 4, 2018 and May 14 to 16, 2019, the number of non-conformities (NCs) had significantly declined from 79 in 2018 to 26 in 2019. On the number of CCARs, it also had a significant decrease from 66 in 2018 to only 15 in 2019.

 To date, more than 200 hours of training courses, workshops, and technical guidance have been conducted. Meanwhile, 122 operational procedures were approved on management processes, core processes, and support processes.

 QMS aims to increase an organization's awareness of its duties and commitment in fulfilling the needs and expectations of its customers and interested parties, and in achieving satisfaction with its products and services.

----- DOC | Dear Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/08/dear-students-2/ | 2019-08-14 -----
Greetings!

 Our dear first year students, I wish to welcome and congratulate you on your successful admission to Cavite State University (CvSU) this Academic Year 2019-2020. Whatever course you intend to pursue in the next four or five years, you made the right decision.

 The University is now in its full implementation of Republic Act No. 10931, known as the “Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act of 2017” by State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) and Local Universities and Colleges (LUCs) that will surely create a positive change in your life as well as transform your personal life.

 Your arrival in CvSU marks a new chapter in your life, another milestone of molding yourself through the experiences and challenges you will encounter along the way.  This special journey is not easy but with your commitment and dedication, undoubtedly, you will achieve academic excellence that will spell success.

 Savor and enjoy the many opportunities to learn new things, acquire new knowledge, develop new skills, and even enhance your personal attributes to fulfill your goals and live out your dreams.

 Leave these tasks to us as we take pride in imparting what you need with the constant guidance and support of our competent and efficient faculty and employees in shaping you to be globally competitive and confidently prepared individuals for future success! Again, warm welcome to our first year, transferees and old students.

 Good luck!

 HERNANDO D. ROBLES, Ed. D 

 University President

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of I.T., Technical and Scientific Laboratory Equipment (Improvement of CEIT Laboratories) – 2nd Posting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/07/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-i-t-technical-and-scientific-laboratory-equipment-improvement-of-ceit-laboratories-2nd-posting/ | 2019-07-09 -----
Minutes of the Pre-bid Conference and Bid Bulletin

 

 Minutes of the Meeting 

 Supplemental/ Bid Bulletin-1 

 

 ITB

 ITB – I.T., Technical and Scientific Laboratory Equipment 

 BID DOCUMENTS

 BD – I.T., Technical and Scientific Laboratory Equipment 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 I.T., Technical and Scientific Laboratory Equipment

----- DOC | Installation of Elevator (Imus Campus) – 2nd Posting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/07/installation-of-elevator-imus-campus-2nd-posting/ | 2019-07-09 -----
ITB

 ITB –  Installation of Elevator 

 BID DOCUMENTS

 BD – Installation of Elevator 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 Installation of Elevator 1 

 Installation of Elevator 2

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Radio Station Equipment (CAS) – 2nd posting | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/07/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-radio-station-equipment-cas-2nd-posting/ | 2019-07-09 -----
ITB

 ITB – Radio Station Equipment 

 BID DOCS

 PBD – Radio Station Equipment 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 Radio Station Equipment 

  

 
 
 Minutes of the Meeting 

  

 Supplemental/ Bid Bulletin-1

----- DOC | Schedule of Registration for 1st Semester 2019-2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/07/schedule-of-registration-for-1st-semester-2019-2020/ | 2019-07-08 -----
Announcements 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Admission Updates: Change of Venue for Orientation 
 Supply, Delivery and Installation of Radio Station Equipment (CAS) – 2nd posting

----- DOC | Admission Updates: Change of Venue for Orientation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/07/announcement-change-of-venue-for-orientation/ | 2019-07-04 -----
There has been a change in the venue for the Orientation of incoming new students on July 29 – August 01, 2019, 8:00am to 5:00pm. The venue will be at the University Quadrangle. Thank you!

----- DOC | Release of Registration Form | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/06/release-of-registration-form/ | 2019-06-03 -----
To all incoming first year students who have submitted their original documents to the Office of the University Registrar for Enrollment, you may claim your Registration Forms on the dates listed below:

 
 
 
 Date of Submission of Original Documents 
 Date of Release of Registration Form 

 
 May 20, 2019 
 June 10, 2019 

 
 May 21, 2019 
  June 11, 2019 

 
 May 202, 2019 
  June 13, 2019 

 
 May 29, 2019 
 June 14 2019 

 
 May 30, 2019

----- DOC | ISO QMS team prepares for the next cycle audit | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/05/iso-qms-team-prepares-for-the-next-cycle-audit/ | 2019-05-06 -----
The ISO Quality Management System (QMS) Team underwent a leg of refresher activities last April 4, 11, and 25 in preparation for the next cycle of Internal Audit. In a QMS Memorandum No. 2019-08 dated March 27, QMS Team Leader Dr. Leyma L. Cero released the schedule of activities to push for sustainability of QMS.

 All members of the administrative council in the main campus including department chairs/unit heads, QMS Core Team, internal auditors, and members of the QMS secretariat converged at IH1 Basement Function Hall last April 4 for the first leg of this series of activities. Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, current IQA head, re-oriented the participants on ISO 9001:2015 Standard, CvSU's ISO Journey, and what's next on this journey.

 The second leg was an Orientation on Workplace Standards held last April 11 at IH2 Conference Room. Speakers include Dr. David L. Cero, one of the members of the Core Team, who discussed the 5S of Good Housekeeping while Prof. Danielito R. Escaño, PPS Director, discussed Building Maintenance, and Dr. Leyma L. Cero on Proposed Workplace Standards aimed to provide and maintain a working environment, which will relate to quality and productivity improvement in accordance with QMS. Participants had an opportunity to critic the presented standards, gave suggestions and recommendations to come up with the final standards.

 Rounding up the leg of activities was a Refresher on Auditing QMS at Hostel Tropicana last April 25 aimed at revising the existing audit checklist. Forty-five internal auditors including the newly designated and QMS secretariat were oriented on the Principles of Auditing QMS. Ms. Herrera discussed IQA Procedure including the preparation of annual audit plan, planning for the conduct of the audit, developing the audit checklist, conduct of the audit, reporting of findings, and conduct of post IQA activity.

 CvSU acquired its ISO QMS certification from AJA Registrars, December 12 of last year after a rigorous preparation through a series of trainings and workshops. With this certification, the University vows to strengthen its commitment and is now preparing for internal audit in May as an offshoot of the scheduled surveillance visit of external auditors in October this year.

----- DOC | Admission Updates: Medical | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/admission-updates-medical/ | 2019-04-19 -----
For those students who have a schedule for their physical exam, please do not forget to bring your medical results.

 Also, only those scheduled for physical exam that day will be entertained. Students that will be caught using referral forms or information sheets with tampered/photocopied scheduled dates will not be entertained.

----- DOC | LIST OF STUDENTS WHO QUALIFIED FOR ADMISSION FOR 1ST SEMESTER SY 2019-2020 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/list-of-students-who-qualified-for-admission-exam-for-1st-semester-sy-2019-2020/ | 2019-04-13 -----
You may proceed to CvSU University Gymnasium to get the Notice of Admission starting April 15, 2019.

 Thank you and Congratulations!

 LIST OF STUDENTS WHO QUALIFIED FOR ADMISSION FOR 1ST SEMESTER SY 2019-2020

----- DOC | Supply, Delivery and Installation of Full Color LED Wall | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/supply-delivery-and-installation-of-full-color-led-wall/ | 2019-04-11 -----
Bid Bulletin No.1 

 

 ITB

 ITB – Full Color LED Wall  

 BID DOCS

 PBD – Full Color LED Wall 

 PLAN

 
 Full Color LED Wall 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 Full Color LED Wall

----- DOC | Installation of Elevator for Imus Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/installation-of-elevator-for-imus-campus/ | 2019-04-11 -----
Bid Bulletin No. 1 

  

 ITB

 ITB – Elevator for Imus Campus 

 BID DOCS

 
 PBD – Elevator for Imus Campus 

 PLAN

 Specs-Elevator-Imus Campus-drawing 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 Specs-Elevator-Imus Campus

----- DOC | Results of Grade 11 Admission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/results-of-grade-11-admission/ | 2019-04-03 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 Improvement of Student Union Building 
 Supply and Delivery of Library Journals

----- DOC | Improvement of Student Union Building | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/improvement-of-student-union-building/ | 2019-04-01 -----
Bid Bulletin

       Bulletin No.1 

       Bulletin No.2 

       Bulletin No.3 

 

 ITB

 ITB – Improvement of Student Union Building 

 BID DOCS

 Bid Docs – Improvement of Student Union Building 

 PLAN

 Plan – Improvement of SUB 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 BOQ and Scope – Improvement of SUB

----- DOC | Repair and Improvement of Material Testing Laboratory | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/repair-and-improvement-of-material-testing-laboratory/ | 2019-04-01 -----
Bid Bulletin

 
     Bid Bulletin No. 1 

 
     Bid Bulletin No. 2 

  

 ITB

 ITB – Repair and Improvement of Material Testing Laboratory 

 BID DOCS

 Bid Docs – Repair and Improvement of Material Testing Laboratory 

 PLAN

 Plan – Repair and Improvement of Material Testing Laboratory 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 BOQ and Scope – Repair and Improvement of Material Testing Laboratory

----- DOC | Construction of Covered Court with Stage | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/construction-of-covered-court-with-stage/ | 2019-04-01 -----
Bid Bulletin

       Bulletin No. 1 

 
       Bulletin No. 2 

      Bulletin No. 3 

       Bulletin No. 4 

  

 ITB

 ITB – Construction of Covered Court with Stage 

 BID DOCS

 Bid Docs – Construction of Covered Court with Stage 

 PLAN

 Plan – Construction of Covered Court with Stage 1 

 Plan – Construction of Covered Court with Stage 2 

 SPECIFICATIONS

 BOQ and Scope – Construction of Covered Court with Stage

----- DOC | Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/04/construction-of-food-stall-including-the-improvement-of-canteen/ | 2019-04-01 -----
Bid Bulletin 

 
       Bulletin No.1 

 
       Bulletin No.2 

 

 ITB 

 ITB – Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen 

 BID DOCS 

 Bid Docs – Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen 

 PLAN 

 Plan – Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen 

 SPECIFICATIONS 

 BOQ and Scope – Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen

----- DOC | Results of Grade 7 Admission | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/03/results-of-grade-7-admission/ | 2019-03-21 -----
News updates 
 
 
   
   Tweet 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 Post navigation

 CvSU is Top 6 State University in 2018 
 Construction of Food Stall including the Improvement of Canteen

----- DOC | CvSU is Top 6 State University in 2018 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/03/cvsu-is-top-6-state-university-in-2018/ | 2019-03-19 -----
32nd AACCUP Annual Conference (March 6-8, 2019) 

 From one
recognition to another, Cavite State University took the 6th spot of the Top
Ranking State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) with the highest number of
Levels I – IV accredited programs in 2018. 

 The award was
given during the 32 nd Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and
Universities in the Philippines or AACCUP Annual Conference held at the Mayon Hall of
the Century Park Hotel, Malate, Manila, attended by SUC presidents or their
representatives last March 6 – 8, 2019.

             Themed “Capability-Building for Internal
and External Outcomes-Based Quality Assurance”, this three-day event commenced
with the General Assembly that turned out to be an Executive Business Meeting, which
was attended by AACCUP officials and 54 participants from different SUCs.

 President
Hernando D. Robles led the University delegation along with some members of the
administrative council. According to Dr. Robles, the Executive Business Meeting
was a learning experience and very informative as a prelude to AACCUP
Conference Proper. “I would like to congratulate the officers and members of the
Board of Trustees (BOT), headed by its chair, Dr. Myrna Q. Mallari, who is the
president of Tarlac State University and AACCUP president, Dr. Manuel T.
Corpus”, he said. 

 In
2017, CvSU was hailed as the top performing state university, besting 102 SUCs
in the country with the most number of accredited degree programs for 2017.

----- DOC | CvSU is host to PhilAAST Caravan 2019 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/03/cvsu-is-host-to-philaast-caravan-2019/ | 2019-03-07 -----
What a good way to start the love month with Cavite State University (CvSU) as host to the 2019 Caravan of the Philippine Association for the Advancement of Science and Technology (PhilAAST), last February 1, 2019.

 The caravan, aimed at introducing and encouraging membership to the organization started with a program at SM Rolle Hall, this university, with members of the administrative council, headed by university president, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, who welcomed the participants and expressed his support to the vision and mission of the Association. “We are deeply honored for choosing our university as your venue for this noteworthy undertaking”, he said.

 Dr. Jaime C. Montoya, PhilAAST president and executive director of PCHRD gave a brief orientation of PhilAAST to the participants composed of faculty and staff, officials from the Local Government Unit (LGU) of Indang, different stakeholders and private individuals.

 Meanwhile, Hon. Fortunato T. de la Peña, Secretary of the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) and adviser of PhilAAST also graced the event with his inspirational message and presented the DOST's major programs.

 Dr. Teddy F. Tepora, project leader, talked on the Intellectual Property and Technology Business Management (IP-TBM) Project. Highlight of the morning program was the induction of new PhilAAST recruits. The Association recruited a number of faculty and staff from the colleges and satellite campuses of CvSU to become members.

 PhilAAST is a non-stock and non-profit scholarly organization aimed to promote and broaden the base of scientific advancement in the country.  It operates using funds from membership fees, annual dues, sponsorships, and donations. Its members are researchers from different fields of science aiming to share their findings with fellow scientists, and the Filipino community.

 The one-day activity wrapped up with field tours on the following sites: Coffee Quality Processing Center and Agriculture and Food Technology Business Incubator (AFTBI) Production Area and Coffee Gene bank in CvSU; Science for the Convergence of Agriculture and Tourism (SciCAT) at Silan Farm; and three sites in Bacoor City, namely: L.A. Machineries Corporation; Bacoor Food Processing Center; and Bacoor Mussel Depuration Facility. Drs. Ruel M. Mojica, VP for Research and Extension and Alexander R. Madrigal, Regional Director of DOST 4A facilitated the tour.

----- DOC | Dear Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/02/dear-students/ | 2019-02-14 -----
As we all look forward to the University's continued advancement, I believe this executive summary will effectively serve as an inspiration and at the same time motivation in our efforts to become a global-research university.

 Our record of accomplishment in 2018 includes:

 Sustaining academic excellence 

 
 Maintained high percentage of board passers and topnotchers in different programs;

 Rebuilt the faculty, increasing faculty size by more than 164 positions, including 136 tenure-track positions; awarded 175 plantilla positions to teaching and non-teaching personnel; and added faculty and staff in major units, Colleges and satellite campuses;

 Pushed for quality assurance level-up;

 Managed the successful AACCUP accreditation of 37 different programs with its corresponding status.

 
 Enabling student achievement 

 
 Conducted listening exercises across campus with student leaders to boost students' morale;

 Adopted retention, progression, and completion best practices to ensure that students were on the right track to graduation from day one;

 Designed metrics to assess student performance;

 Directed classroom assignment and scheduling hindrances to student course and degree completion;

 Created block scheduling for freshmen;

 Integrated an academic component to new student orientation;

 Enhanced the collection of data related to student satisfaction;

 Implemented the K-12 new general education curriculum;

 With the Office of Student Affairs and Services and the University Registrar, established the profiling of students to provide high-achieving value for the program they enrolled in;

 Opened more opportunities for students in the workplace through on-the-job training and other training programs; and

 Organized job fairs to prepare students for bigger job opportunities.

 
 Supporting aggressive infrastructure 

 
 Aggressive infrastructure development using the General Appropriations Act and Income of the university.

 
 Research capability 

 
 Bestowed opportunities for faculty research to be shared with students and the community alike;

 Established international linkages for research collaboration and student-teaching exchange programs;

 Organized and co-organized international conferences, trainings and seminars;

 Facilitated and managed the completion of  research outputs utilized by the industry and other beneficiaries;

 Increased the percentage of research outputs published in internationally refereed and CHED recognized journal; and

 Established Research and Innovation Centers.

 
 Extension services 

 
 Strengthened active partnerships with LGUs, industries, NGSs, NGAs, SMEs, and other stakeholders;

 Organized and supported different extension programs consistent with the SUC's mandated and priority programs; and

 Increased the percentage of beneficiaries through training courses and advisory services.

 
 Strategic objectives 

 
 Earned ISO 9001:2015 certification;

 Improved the Rewards System;

 Implemented the ICT-Based Operation;

 Maintained the PRIME-HRM; and

 Implemented the Health and Wellness Program.

 
 Cavite State University has been in the forefront in the implementation of its strategic development plan, anchored on the Regional Development Plan (2017-2022), CHED Development Plan (2017-2022), and AMBISYON Natin 2040, to produce major improvements in the specific areas of higher and advanced education programs, research, extension and production.

 With the challenges ahead, Cavite State University reaffirms its commitment to be ' 2 FAST 2 SERIOUS' to accomplish the tasks for institutionalization to achieve global recognition in 2019.

 HERNANDO D. ROBLES, Ed. D 

 University President

----- DOC | Edu-Connect delegation visits Cavite State University | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/02/edu-connect-delegation-visits-cavite-state-university/ | 2019-02-09 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU), led by its President, Dr. Hernando D. Robles welcomed the Edu-Connect Southeast Asia Association, Kaohsiung, Taiwan last January 25, 2019. The short visit was part of the Delegation's mission to explore not only Metropolitan Manila, but also the CALABARZON Region for matching the interests of International Industry-University Collaborations, Student Recruitments, Research Collaborations, English/Chinese Learning Industry and University Social Responsibility Projects with Taiwanese Business Association in the Philippines and its partners like CvSU.

 The event, Networking/Matching and Welcome Dinner was attended by the members of the administrative council aimed to find the right match for the different colleges and campuses of the university in terms of curriculum offerings and to network with Southern Taiwan Universities for possible collaboration and linkage to strengthen the University's internationalization efforts.

 Prof. Maria Soledad M. Lising, Director of International and Local Collaboration and Linkages Office (ILCLO), who hosted the program, also introduced the delegation composed of 38 university officials, faculty members and representatives from the private sector and industries in Southern Taiwan.

 Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, Vice President for Research and Extension, presented the background, accomplishments and projects of the University. “For more than a century now, CvSU continues to defend the tenets of truth, excellence and service, vows to uphold its vision and mission and affirms its commitment that in the next years to come, it will be too fast and too serious in transforming the University into a Global University”, he emphasized. Prof. Bernard S. Feranil, in charge of the Language Study Center (LSC) of the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS), presented the English Proficiency Course, which also plans to accept foreign students.

 

 As a sign of gratitude, Dr. Robles gave a symbolic key to Dr. Yuan-Hsing Chu, President of Edu-Connect Southeast Asia Association, Kaohsiung. Also in attendance was Dr. Eing-Mi Wu, Executive Director of Edu Connect and coordinator of the visit. Each delegate was given token and certificate of appreciation. Visitors were also entertained by the well-applauded performances of the CvSU Chorale Ensemble and Dance Troupe.

 Edu-Connect Southeast Asia Association, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, formerly Southern Taiwan Universities was established in 2016. Since then, it has been working closely with the Philippine Academic Communities (CHED, UP System and PASUC) and lately with ADB and NEDA, for Taiwan and Philippines to bond, to soar, and to serve the Region better through academic, educational and training collaborations. The Association also spearheaded the visit from January 22 to 27, with Manila Economic and Cultural Office (MECO), Taiwan Association, Inc., Philippines and Taiwan Institute of Economic Research, STPO as co-organizers.

----- DOC | Cavite State University Welcomes SEATeachers | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/01/cavite-state-university-welcomes-seateachers/ | 2019-01-29 -----
Cavite State University (CvSU) spearheaded by the College of Education (CEd)

welcomed the Pre-Service Student Teachers from Thailand and Indonesia, 15 January.

This is already the 7 th Batch of Pre-Service Student Teacher Exchange project, which

CvSU is participating for the first time with more than 80 different universities from the

Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand that started last January 8 and will end

on February 15, 2019. However, the University opted to commence the program from

January 14 to February 12, 2019.

In her speech, Dr. Cecilia B. Banaag, CEd dean, emphasized the role of the

university in participating in this Pre-Service Student Teacher Exchange in Southeast

Asia (SEA-Teacher Project).

SEA-Teacher Project came about in October 2014 when the Southeast Asian

Ministers of Education through the SEAMEO Council adopted the SEAMEO Education

Agenda or the seven priority areas for SEAMEO to work together to improve quality

education in Southeast Asia. “Revitalizing Teacher Education” is one of the priority

areas in achieving quality education for the region. In order to fulfill this mandate, the

SEAMEO Secretariat has initiated this project, which aims to provide opportunity for

pre-service student teachers from universities in Southeast Asia to have teaching

experiences (practicum) in schools in other countries in Southeast Asia.

Participating schools in the project include University of Muhadmadiyah Prof.

Dr. Hamka (UHAMKA) and Ganesha University of Education (UNDIKSHA) of

Indonesia and Chiang Rai Rajabhat University (CRRU) and ValayaAlongkorn Rajabhat

University (VRU) of Thailand. Nine student-teachers from these universities will be

deployed to the main campus, particularly Science High School and Child Development

Center (CDC) and satellite campuses like Naic, Rosario and Silang to teach their field of

specialization in English, Math, Science and Childhood Education.

Meanwhile, Prof. Ma. Soledad M. Lising, director for International and Local

Collaboration and Linkages Office, ensured the safety of the participants during their

stay in the university and reminded them to enjoy their experience in the Philippines.

The deans and directors including the Vice President for Research and Extension,

Dr. Ruel M. Mojica and the Vice President for Planning and Development, Dr. Leyma L.

Cero also attended the program that concluded a campus tour and orientation meeting

with the cooperating teachers and principals about the SEATEacher Project.

----- DOC | Cavite State University Remains the Top Performing School in Criminology | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/01/cavite-state-university-remains-the-top-performing-school-in-criminology/ | 2019-01-23 -----
For two straight years, Cavite State University (CvSU) proved its feat as the top performing school in criminology in the CALABARZON Region and earned the 3rd spot in the country, based on the results of the Criminologist Licensure Examination (CLE) given by the Board of Criminology in December 2018.

 As per Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) Resolution No. 2010-547 series of 2010, CvSU was ranked 3rd, with 50 or more examinees and with at least 80% passing percentage.

 Out of 41,341 takers all over the country, 14,324 passed the said examination. The College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) listed 62 out of 65 first time takers who passed the examination, recording an all-time high of 95.38 passing percentage as against the 34.65 national passing percentage.

 During the administrative council meeting, Dr. Hernando D. Robles, university president, congratulated and acknowledged the dedication and commitment of the College, headed by its dean, Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic, in producing competent graduates.

 Meanwhile, for two years in a row, CvSU Bacoor Campus, has recorded an impressive 100 passing percentage in the same examination. To date, there are 560 colleges and universities offering criminology program in the country. Congratulations!

----- DOC | Admin Council conducts year-end review and operational planning workshop | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2019/01/admin-council-conducts-year-end-review-and-operational-planning-workshop/ | 2019-01-15 -----
To start the year right, members of the administrative council conducted a year-end review and operational planning workshop, 7 – 9 January. The three-day activity kicked off at the main campus and resumed at Crown Legacy Hotel in Baguio City.

 University President Dr. Hernando D. Robles, in his presentation looked back on the accomplishments of his administration since he took office in 2016 that led to the crafting of the Strategic Development Plan (2016-2022), anchored on the Regional Development Plan (2017-2022), CHED Development Plan (2017-2022), and AMBISYON Natin 2040.

 Dr. Leyma L. Cero, VP for Planning and Development, explained the levelling of expectations and the planning process, while Engr. Renato B. Cubilla, director for planning, presented the FY 2018 physical targets and accomplishments.  Stakeholders like the Magsasaka Siyentista, representatives from the Local Government Unit (LGU), and police officers from Indang Municipal Police Station were invited to take part in this noteworthy happening.

 The four major programs under the General Appropriations Act (GAA), as mandated for state universities and colleges were also presented. Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, VP for Academic Affairs, presented the higher education program that includes enrollment, foreign students, program accreditation, graduates, performance in the licensure examinations, and student and faculty development. Likewise, Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, dean of the Graduate School, presented the advanced education program covering enrollment, foreign students, program accreditation, and graduates. The research program focusing on the on-going and completed studies, research grants, paper presentations, publications, and patent applications and the technical advisory extension program covering active linkages, trainings conducted and others were both presented by Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, VP for Research and Extension.

 Other areas of concern were presented such as general administration and support services by Dr. Henry O. Garcia, VP for Administrative and Support Services; support to operation (Quality Management System) by Dr. Leyma L. Cero; and business operations by Mr. Guillermo P. Desenganio, director for business affairs. Inputs for the FY 2019 operational plan concluded the first day of the activity.

 The event continued in Baguio City with target setting, workshop as well as presentation and critiquing of outputs. The last day was a short visit at Benguet State University, exchanging the best practices of both Level IV state universities in SUC levelling.

----- DOC | Christmas Message | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/12/christmas-message/ | 2018-12-19 -----
Christmas is a time to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ and a time to reflect as we anticipate a new year filled with strong hopes and incredible opportunities. Indeed, the year 2019 has been an engaging year for all of us. With our # Malasakit , I'm overwhelmed of what we have accomplished so far.

 I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to all members of the CvSU Family, especially the wonderful men and women for their commitment and hard work exhibited in carrying out tremendously the duties and responsibilities to achieve excellence. Your generosity, enthusiasm and support enabled us to attain greatness in serving our target clients, stakeholders, collaborators, among others. You've done an outstanding job! 

 Looking back at the past 12 months, it may have been busy , but the coming years are going to be even busier. W e had achieved a lot based on our Strategic Development Plan (2016-2022), anchored on the Regional Development Plan (2017-2022), CHED Development Plan (2017-2022), and AMBISYON Natin 2040.

 For the first semester of Academic Year 2019-2020, our enrollment soar high, we accommodated foreign students through the Pre-Service Student Teacher Exchange project, strengthened international linkages and built stronger ties with government and non–government agencies and institutions, hosted several local, national and international seminars and conferences, hurdled program accreditations, surpassed ISO surveillance visit, produced globally competitive graduates, excelled in the licensure examinations, received external funds for research and extension projects, sustained the  faculty and staff development program, improved physical facilities, and more countless blessings, all for the progress toward achieving the vision and mission of our beloved Cavite State University.

 Though faced with many challenges, we can still be grateful to God for giving us a successful and productive year. The New Year will undoubtedly offer various opportunities for us to build further collaborations and strengthen engagement and support from our mutual partners.

 I pray that God will continue to protect us and bless us so that we will be able to fulfil our plans for the years to come in order to build a brighter and stronger CvSU.

 I wish you peace and joy throughout the holiday season and in the New Year. A very Merry Christmas and all the best for 2020. Happy holidays every one!

----- DOC | Admission Requirements | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/12/admission-requirements-2/ | 2018-12-17 -----
PLEASE ATTACH THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS ON THE APPLICATION FORM : 

 Download the application for admission form (Paper Size: A4).

 THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS MUST BE COMPLETED BEFORE SUBMISSION: 

 New Student (Senior High School, Alternative Learning System or ALS passers, Basic Education Curriculum or BEC graduate)         

 
 Accomplished Application Form (downloadable from website; please print in A4 size paper – back to back page)

 2 copies of 1×1 ID Picture

 Short ordinary white folder

 Photocopy of High School or Senior High School (G12) Form138 (at least first & second grading period) / Certificate of ALS Rating with recommendation for admission to college

 Photocopy of Certificate of Good Moral Character

 
 Transferee – 

 
 Accomplished Application Form (downloadable from website; please print in A4 size paper – back to back page)

 2 copies of 1×1 ID Picture

 Short ordinary white folder

 Photocopy of Transcript of Records / Certificate of Grades signed by the Registrar

 Photocopy of Transfer Credentials / Honorable Dismissal

 Photocopy of Certificate of Good Moral Character

 Photocopy of NBI Clearance

 
 
 
 
    No transferee or shiftee shall be admitted for the following: 

 
   Engineering programs – after the first year level 

   other programs – after the second year level 

   Doctor of Veterinary Medicine – after the fourth year level 

 
 

 
 
 Second Degree taker            

 
 Accomplished Application Form (downloadable from website; please print in A4 size paper – back to back page)

 2 copies of 1×1 ID Picture

 Short ordinary white folder

 Photocopy of Transcript of Records

 
 Foreign Applicant must proceed first to the University Registrar Office for initial evaluation bringing the following documents-    

 
 Approved permit to study from concerned embassy

 Report Card of Transcript of Records from High School last attended from applicant's country of origin

 Police Clearance

 Affidavit of financial support duly authenticated by the Philippine Foreign Service Post

 Certificate of English Proficiency (as necessary)

 Certification of Good Moral Character

 2 copies of 1×1 ID Picture

 
 REMINDERS: 

 
 Incomplete requirements, no transactions

 Portal copy of grades is not acceptable

 For STEM graduates who will pursue Engineering courses – kindly bring a copy of Grade11 report card (1 st and 2 nd semester) for evaluation

 
 ADMISSION PROCEDURES 

 for incoming new students- 

 1. Submit the  complete requirements  for scheduling of admission exam

 2. Undergo admission exam as scheduled by OSAS

 3. Get the exam result and Notice of Student Admission (NOSA) (as instructed when is the release date)

 4. Undergo medical examination at CvSU Health Services Unit (infirmary)

 5. follow the enrollment procedure (at Registrar Office)

 

 for incoming transferees and second-coursers- 

 

 
 1. Submit the  complete requirements  for scheduling of interview

 2. OSAS will issue Notice for Interview and student will undergo college evaluation and interview

 3.  If passed the evaluation/interview, photocopy the interview form and undergo admission exam as scheduled by OSAS . If failed, go back to OSAS. 

 4. Get the exam result and Notice of Student Admission (NOSA) (as instructed when is the release date)

 5. Undergo medical examination at CvSU Health Services Unit (infirmary)

 6. follow the enrollment procedure (at Registrar Office)

----- DOC | Cavite State University, 4-year awardee as Most Outstanding SUC in GAD Implementation in CALABARZON | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/12/cavite-state-university-4-year-awardee-as-most-outstanding-suc-in-gad-implementation-in-calabarzon/ | 2018-12-13 -----
(L-R) Dir. Luis G. Banua, NEDA Region IV-A; Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom, GAD-Resource Center staff; Hon. Hermilando I. Mandanas, Batangas governor and RDC chairperson; Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, GAD director; Dr. Leyma L. Cero, VP-Planning and Development; Ms. Raecel A. Estebat, GAD staff; Secretary Jose Maria Nicomedes Hernandez, Office of the Presidential Adviser for Southern Tagalog; Engr. Ladislao Andal, RDC Calabarzon co-chair. 
 Cavite State University, once again, was awarded as the Most Outstanding State University in Gender and Development Implementation in Calabarzon in 2018. In behalf of President Hernando D. Robles, the award was received by Dr. Leyma L. Cero, Vice President for Planning and Development, Dr. Nelia C. Cresino, GAD Director, and the GAD Resource Center staff, Ms. Shirlyn M. Rom and Ms. Raecel A. Estebat on December 6, 2018 at the NEDA Region IV-A Building, Barangay Milagrosa, Calamba City, Laguna. This year's Search was based on the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework Assessment from 2015 to 2017. The university obtained a GMEF Assessment of Level 4 (Commitment, Enhancement, and Institutionalization).

----- DOC | Cavite State University is Now ISO 9001:2015 Certified | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/12/cavite-state-university-is-now-iso-90012015-certified/ | 2018-12-13 -----
For less than a year of preparation, Cavite State University (CvSU) is now ISO 9001:2015 certified! AJA Registrars, the certifying body, represented by Ms. Jerah Duran handed in the certificate in a simple ceremony held at SL Lasap Hall, 12 December and was witnessed by the members of the Core Team.

 

 In his acceptance speech, university president Dr. Hernando D. Robles expressed his utmost gratitude and appreciation, especially to the Core Team for allotting extra time and effort to realize this endeavor. “This is the product of determination, hard work and cooperation of each and every member of the CvSU community”, he added.

 Since its orientation in December 2017, ISO 9001:2015 preparation was a serious thing and university officials put their efforts to fast track the certification acquisition. In his office memorandum, Dr. Robles released the composition of ISO Core Team members and participants, as well the schedule of workshops. The 20-man team underwent series of training and workshops on ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System or QMS Requirements and Documentation.

 QMS aims to increase an organization's awareness of its duties and commitment in fulfilling the needs and expectations of its stakeholders, and in achieving satisfaction with its products and services.

 With this certification, CvSU can now make its services accessible, convenient and pleasant to the transacting public and improve customer satisfaction driven by the university-wide quality improvement on the scope “provision of admission and registration, management of learning (covering graduate and undergraduate programs), research and extension services.”

 Congratulations CvSU!

----- DOC | 3rd International Conference on Medical Pluralism | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/11/3rd-international-conference-on-medical-pluralism/ | 2018-11-29 -----
Download Promo Material 
 
 

 
 
 Medical Pluralism

 Medical pluralism can be defined as the employment of more than one medical system or the use of both conventional and complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) for health and illness. According to Nazrul (2005), pluralism and the co-existence of a variety of different medical systems within chosen context are common features in various settings. The popularity of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) raises a range of ethical issues for practicing clinicians. Principles of biomedical ethics define obligations of health care professionals, but applying principles in particular cases at the interface of CAM and biomedicine may be particularly challenging (Tilburt and Miller, 2007). How do the different systems or practices interact? Is it correct to develop an integrated health system (combining both biomedical and alternative medicines) within the national system in a medically pluralist society?

 Over the last decades, awareness has increased about the phenomenon of medical pluralism and the importance to integrate biomedicine and other forms of health care. Considerable debate has arisen about ethical problems related to the growing use of CAM in industrialized countries (Marian, 2007).

 The “geography of health care system” in the Philippines is just one super continent of biomedicine surrounded by islands of indigenous forms of healing. Traditional medicine is not properly documented in the country (Lasco, 2018), it is disorganized and minute in scope, in so far as professional practice is concerned. It is being practiced by the folk healers, thus, inevitably intersects with biomedical practice at the level of individual patients, families and communities.

 In the advent of the practice of integrative medicine, there is a need to promote medical pluralism in the Philippines. Thus, this international conference is necessary to provide an avenue to discuss the status, issues, and challenges on the use complementary medicine in Asia and the Pacific.

 Objectives 

 The 3 rd International Conference on Medical Pluralism aims to discuss the status, issues and challenges on the use of complementary medicine in Asia and the Pacific. Specifically, the conference aims to:

 
 provide an avenue for the exchange of ideas, knowledge, and experiences in the practice of complementary medicine, indigenous healing practices, naturopathy and green medicine;

 gather experts, practitioners, researchers, and other related parties to discuss the status, different issues and challenges in the practice of alternative medicines in the region;

 increase the awareness to people on the practice of complementary medicine, indigenous healing practices, naturopathy and green medicine; and

 develop partnerships between and among government and private organizations related to complementary medicines.

 
 Program of Activities

 

 The conference will be highlighted by the following activities:

 
 plenary talks about Complementary Medicine in Asia: Status, Issues and Challenges

 paper presentations about Traditional Medicine Social Acceptance, Tribal or Indigenous Healing Practices, Naturopathy, and Green Medicine

 meetings and consultation among the participating agencies, and

 tour to a plantation of herbal plants and a Manufacturing Plant of Herbal Medicine

 
 Expected Output

 

 It is expected that the conference will provide an increased knowledge on medical pluralism for all of its participants, increased number of partnership between and among government and non-government organizations, and increased number of publication on medical pluralism. This activity is also envisioned to offer a sustainable practice of alternative medicine in the Philippines; strong network of practitioners, enthusiasts, advocates, and researchers of alternative medicines from research institutes, hospitals, medical schools, SUCs and other organizations; engagement of people to conduct researches on alternative medicines; and operationalization of the Cavite State University (CvSU) Farmacy: A Plantation of Herbs and Spices, as one of the components of the CvSU Agri-Eco-Tourism Park.

 Target Participants 

 The 3 rd International Conference on Medical Pluralism aims to involve the following group of people from various organizations:

 
 Experts, researchers, faculty members, medical practitioners, students from Asian and European countries;

 Officers, staff, and researchers from medical schools, research institutions and hospitals from Asian and European countries;

 Experts from the Department of Health (DOH) and Department of Science and Technology of the Philippines (DOST); and

 Medical Officers, experts and enthusiasts from State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) in the Philippines

 
 Conference Fees

 

 
 
 
 Type of Participant 
 Early Bird Registration 
 On-Site Registration 

 
 Professional 
 $130 (Php6,500) 
 $150 (Php7,500) 

 
 Student 
 $80 (Php4,000) 
 $100 (Php5,000) 

 
 
 
 The Registration Fee includes lunch, morning and afternoon snacks, and conference kit.

 The fee does not include accommodation during the conference duration. Kindly make your own booking for accommodation.  You may contact Dr. Cecilia B. Banaag at 046-415-0010 for your accommodation needs.

 Deadline for registration and payment will be on March 4, 2019

 Student participants are subsidized in this conference. Please show your validated student ID upon registration.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 Download Promo Material

----- DOC | CvSU joins the 8th IT Skills Olympics | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/09/cvsu-joins-the-8th-it-skills-olympics/ | 2018-09-29 -----
The 8 th IT Skills Olympics was held at the University of Makati last September 28, 2018. This is an annual event hosted by the University of Makati, and sponsored by Cebuana Lhuiller, Networld, and Zenshin for this year's edition. The episode this year has seen 48 competing schools from different parts of the country to battle it out to be called the Overall Champion.

 

 Team CvSU composed of BSCS and BSIT students (from left to right) : Denmark L. Mondejar, Patrick V. Pajarillaga, Jaison A. Maceda, Charles Francis T. Mendoza, Marc Elvin D. Cerezo, Jeffrey M. Delgado, Claudine E. Tayco, and Jan O'neil P. Vida 

  The different events CvSU participated in are:

 
 
 
 Participant/s Event 

 
 
 
 Patrick V. Pajarillaga

Jan O'neil P. Vida Web Design 

 
 Jaison A. Maceda

Charles Francis T. Mendoza Java Programming 

 
 Denmark L. Mondejar

Claudine E. Tayco IT Quiz Bee 

 
 Marc Elvin D. Cerezo Computer Networking 

 
 Jeffrey M. Delgado PC Assembly/ Disassembly 

 
 
 
 IT Quiz Bee 

 Out of 41 participating schools, the top 10 teams advanced for the final round. During the final round, Denmark L. Mondejar and Claudine E. Tayco was awarded with the 2nd place among the different participating universities and colleges. 

 

 Denmark and Claudine receiving their award along with the Dean of the College of Computer Science, the Executive Vice-President of the University of Makati and the Keynote Speaker.

----- DOC | PLDT Nationwide Job Caravan | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/09/pldt-nationwide-job-caravan/ | 2018-09-27 -----
Position:  Sales and Customer Service Associate  

 Qualifications: 

 – Must be a graduate of any 4-yr college course 

 – Preferably with sales and/or customer service experience (if without experience, must be willing to do both sales and customer service roles) 

 – Open for relocation and flexible work shifts 

 Recruitment venue & schedule:   

 
 September 28, 2018:  

 
 
 Cavite – PLDT Kawit, Sarino Subd., Bisita St., Binakayan, Kawit, Cavite 

 
 What to bring: 

 -Bring resume and a valid ID 

 -Come in business attire

----- DOC | CvSU joins the celebration of the 16th Development Policy Research Month | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/08/cvsu-joins-the-celebration-of-the-16th-development-policy-research-month/ | 2018-08-29 -----
Cavite State University joins the nation in celebrating the 16 th Development Policy Research Month . Per Malacañang Proclamation No. 247 dated 2 September 2002, the month of September of every year is declared as Development Policy Research Month (DPRM) to promote and draw nationwide awareness on the importance of policy research in the formulation of national development plans, programs, and policies. The theme of this year's celebration is “Harnessing the Fourth Industrial Revolution: Creating Our Future Today”.

 The Philippine Institute for Development Studies is the agency designated to lead and coordinate the activities for the annual observance of the DPRM. For more information, please visit the DPRM website at http://dprm.pids.gov.ph . (OVPPD)

----- DOC | CvSU personnel pledge support to ISO journey | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/08/cvsu-personnel-pledge-support-to-iso-journey/ | 2018-08-02 -----
Faculty members and staff of the University pledged support to its ISO journey during the Orientation Program cum ISO 9001:2015 Cascading and Commitment Campaign held at the University Gymnasium of the Main Campus in Indang, Cavite on August 1, 2018.

 President Hernando D. Robles led the pledge of commitment of more than 1,400 personnel from the 12 campuses of the University by reciting the quality policy after the orientation given by some members of the Quality Management System Core Team.

 The ISO journey of the University has also been cascaded to the students through various orientation programs at the university, college and program levels.

----- DOC | Dear Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/07/presidents-message-2018/ | 2018-07-31 -----
Greetings!

 I warmly welcome all our students; especially the first batch of K-12 senior high school enrolled this AY2018-2019. Thank you for choosing Cavite State University in your journey to acquire the skills, knowledge and attitude needed in shaping your future.

 This year is the transformation year in education front as it marks the full implementation of Republic Act No. 10931, known as the “Universal Access to Quality Tertiary Education Act of 2017” by State Universities and Colleges (SUCs), as well as Local Universities and Colleges (LUCs) in the country, which our University is now implementing. Thus, students who are currently enrolled in courses leading to a bachelor's degree are exempted from paying tuition and other school fees.

 

 With this opportunity, seize and aspire to be what you want to be, anticipating the challenges and difficulties you will encounter along the way. Our beloved University is here to guide you in all your endeavors. Carry with you the tenets of truth, service and excellence as you battle out in finding the true meaning of victory.

 Good luck!

 HERNANDO D. ROBLES, Ed. D 

 University President

----- DOC | CvSU gears towards ISO certification | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/05/cvsu-gears-towards-iso-certification/ | 2018-05-17 -----
Onward CvSU!

 This 2018 marks the start of the University's ISO journey in providing better services to its stakeholders as it establishes a Quality Management System (QMS) for instruction, research, extension, management and support services in its main campus in Indang, Cavite.

 With consultancy services from the Development Academy of the Philippines, the University aims to enrich the CvSU community's understanding and appreciation of principles and requirements of ISO 9001:2015 QMS; develop the capabilities of key officers and staff in preparing for and sustaining the ISO 9001:2015 certification; and prepare the documentation and implementation requirements for the certification of CvSU QMS and for maintaining and sustaining the established QMS.

 Supervised by the University President, Dr. Hernando Robles, an ISO Core Team was created to lead the University in its goal of being ISO certified. The said core team includes: Dr. Leyma L. Cero, VP for Planning and Development; Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, VP for Academic Affairs; Dr. Henry O. Garcia, VP for Administrative and Support Services; Dr. Ruel M. Mojica, VP for Research and Extension; Dr. Ma. Cynthia R. Dela Cruz, Director for Research; Dr. Lilibeth C. Novicio, Director for Extension Services; Dr. David L. Cero, Director of Physical Planning Services; Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences; Dr. Marilyn M. Escobar, Dean of College of Engineering and Information Technology; Dr. Noel Sedigo, Dean of Tanza-Trece-Trias Campus, Ms. Lolita G. Herrera, Head of Financial Management Office; Ms. Eileen Cubillo, Head of Records Office; Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora, Head of Human Resource Develoment Office; Dr. Romeo M.Sanchez, Director of Health Services, Mr. Romulo Gomez, Director of Civil Security Services; Ms. Sharon M. Isip, In-Charge of the Office of Student Affairs and Services; Edna Mojica, Director for Administration; Edwina O. Roderos, In-charge of University Registrar; Dr. Elizabeth Polinga of OVPAA; and Mary Joyce Alcazar of OVPPD.

 This seven-month project involves the following activities: Orientation on ISO 9001:2015 QMS, Training Course on ISO 9001:2015 QMS Requirements and Documentation, Workshop on Process Mapping and Risk-Based Quality Planning, Workshop on QMS Documentation, Technical Guidance on Enhancement of Operational Controls and Procedures, Technical Guidance on QMS Implementation, Training Course on Auditing QMS, Workshop on Auditing QMS and Technical Guidance on Management Review.

 For best results, the said opportunity for a better CvSU is not the sole task of the Core Team but is a collaborative effort of all members of the CvSU community.

----- DOC | CvSU prides with Talactac's scholarly feat | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/04/cvsu-prides-with-talactacs-scholarly-feat/ | 2018-04-05 -----
After the commendation as top performing state university for 2017, Cavite State University (CvSU) has marked another milestone as one of the faculty members from the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) brought home with impressive accomplishments. 

 Dr. Melbourne R. Talactac, an associate professor of the University, finished Top 1 during the conferment of his degree in Doctor of Philosophy in Veterinary Science, major in Veterinary Virology at the United Graduate School of Veterinary Sciences, Yamaguchi University, Japan.

 His studies allowed him to enjoy a scholarship grant in the said university from the Japanese Government (Monbukagakusho: MEXT) Research Scholarship that started in 2014 until he graduated recently, under the supervision of Prof. Tetsuya Tanaka.

 Aside from being a presidential awardee of his batch, Dr. Talactac also received the Young Researcher Award (Best Oral Presentation), during the 160 th Meeting of the Japanese Society of Veterinary Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan in September 2017 and the Best Oral Presentation at The United Graduate School of Veterinary Sciences, Yamaguchi University Summer Seminar in August 2017.

 While in Japan, he was able to publish 14 research papers in different Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) – indexed journals and produced one institutional Japanese patent. His expertise includes antiviral compounds, innate antiviral immunity, and tick-borne pathogens that inspired him to work on his scholarly feat titled, “Studies on the survival dynamics of tick-borne viruses in the hard tick Haemaphysalis longicornis and the effects of tick antimicrobial peptides on viral replication”.

 Dr. Talactac earned his Master of Science in Veterinary Medicine, major in Preventive Medicine at Chungnam National University (CNU), Republic of Korea. Now he is back to renew his commitment, to share his expertise and to show his support to the University's vision and mission of becoming a Global University in 2020. Congratulations!

----- DOC | CvSU is top performing State University for 2017 | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/03/cvsu-is-top-performing-state-university-for-2017/ | 2018-03-13 -----
The Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines (AACCUP) recently conferred the award to Cavite State University (CvSU) as top performing state university during the annual national conference held at the Waterfront Cebu City Hotel, Cebu City, 7 – 9 March.

 CvSU bested 102 other state universities and colleges in the country with the most number of accredited degree programs for 2017. Dr. Hernando D. Robles, university president, proudly received the plaque of recognition, along with other university officials, namely: Dr. Camilo A. Polinga, vice president for academic affairs; Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro, dean of the Graduate School and Open Learning College; Dr. Bettina Joyce P. Ilagan, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences; Prof. John Xavier B. Nepomuceno, administrator of Naic Campus; and Dr. Adolfo C. Manuel, Jr., director for Quality Assurance and Accreditation Center (QAAC). “This is the fruit of hard work, dedication and commitment of the men and women of CvSU”, he emphasized.

 The year 2017 was transformation year for the university and with the unified effort and support from each member of the academic community; it bravely submitted and pulled it off 49-degree programs for accreditation.

 Of the 120 total number of program offerings, CvSU to date has the following number of accredited programs per level: 44 level 1 accredited; 28 level 2; 13 level 3; 1 level 4; 17 programs are candidates for accreditation; and only 17 programs are scheduled for preliminary visit before the accreditation proper.

 In 2016, CvSU was also recognized as one of the top ten performing SUCs in accreditation, capturing the rank 7 spot. Congratulations!

----- DOC | CvSU's criminology is 1st in the region, 3rd in the country | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/03/cvsus-criminology-is-1st-in-the-region-3rd-in-the-country/ | 2018-03-13 -----
A grand salute to the College of Criminal Justice (CCJ), this University, for being the top performing school in the region and third in the national top performing schools.

 Dr. Hernando D. Robles, university president, received the Institutional Excellence Award, in behalf of the University, for ranking 1 st in the 2016 and 2017 Criminologist Licensure Examination while Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic, dean of CCJ also received the Certificate of Excellence, for her outstanding contribution and commitment to criminology profession. The Professional Criminologists Association of the Philippines, Inc. (PCAP) gave both awards in a ceremony held at Hotel Dominique, Tagaytay City, 6 February.

 Meanwhile, a Plaque of Recognition was also given by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) and the Professional Regulatory Board of Criminology, for ranking 3 rd in the December 2017 Criminologist Licensure Examination among 560 colleges and universities with criminology program in the country. The awarding ceremony was held at the Plenary Hall, Philippine International Convention Center (PICC), Pasay City, 17 February.

 Out of 36,516 takers in the 2017 Criminologist Licensure Examination, CCJ once again made a mark when 71 out of 75 takers passed the said examination with 94.67% passing percentage as against the national passing percentage of 35.67%. Congratulations!  ARCSolis, CvSU photo credit: FICMatic

----- DOC | University foundation day celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/02/university-foundation-day-celebration/ | 2018-02-14 -----
Cavite State University will be celebrating its 112th foundation day with the theme: “CvSU @ 112: Transforming to a Global University” on February 15, 2018. Hon. Harry Roque, the President's Spokesman, will be the Guest Speaker for the said event.

----- DOC | CvSU gets 100% passing rate on Architect ALE Board Exam | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/02/cvsu-gets-100-passing-rate-on-architect-ale-board-exam/ | 2018-02-02 -----
CvSU congratulates its new batch of Architects who made it and gave the University a 100% passing rate on the ALE Board Exam. The new architects are:

 
 Ronnel M. Dy

 Niko A. Villapando

 Kristy E. Rance

 Danielle A. Gamat

 Ma. Cariza Klieyanna U. Ilagan

 Christopher D. Mirhan

 Claire Joy G. Garcia

 Guendie B. Riego de Dios

 John Vincent G. Pescador

----- DOC | WCM holds 100th Commencement Exercises | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/wcm-holds-100th-commencement-exercises/ | 2018-01-25 -----
HRN…100th Commencement Exercises of Cavite State University in consortium with Wesleyan College of Manila with Dr. Hernando D. Robles, university president, Dr. Florita V. Miranda, WCM president, commencement speaker, Bishop Emerito P. Nacpil and member of the CvSU administrative council.

 Congratulations graduates!

----- DOC | The Gazette reaps RHEPC awards | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/the-gazette-reaps-rhepc-awards/ | 2018-01-19 -----
The Gazette, official student paper of the main campus, reaped the following awards in the recently concluded Regional Higher Education Press Conference (RHEPC) 2017-2018 held at Batis Aramin, Lucban, Quezon on January 16-18.

 Group competition: 

 8th place – Best Tabloid

7th place – Literary page

6th place – News page

6th place – Best page design

4th place – Editorial page

 Individual competition: 

 10th place – Jennica Parajeno (Feature English)

8th place – Eydjohn Bacasmas (Editorial English)

8th place – Jurine Abby Tebigar (Column Writing)

7th place – Jennica Parajeno (Photojourn English)

6th place – Eydjohn Bacasmas (Devcom Writing English)

5th place – Katrina Angon (Newswriting English)

4th place – Jennica Parajeno (Poetry Writing Filipino)

3rd place – Katrina Angon (Devcom Writing Filipino)

 Coaches: Ma'am Lisette D. Mendoza

Ma'am Erika Charmaine B. Hernandez

 Your CvSU family is truly proud of you. Congratulations!

----- DOC | CvSU awarded as Outstanding GAD implementor for three straight years | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/cvsu-awarded-as-outstanding-gad-implementor-for-three-straight-years/ | 2018-01-15 -----
The Regional Development Council (RDC) once again accorded the special award to Cavite State University as the Outstanding GAD Implementer (SUC Category). The said special award has been given to CvSU for three years in a row now.

----- DOC | Courses Offered | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/courses-offered-old/ | 2018-01-15 -----
GRADUATE STUDIES

 
 PhD in Agriculture major in:

 
 
 Crop Science

 Animal Science

 Farming systems

 
 
 
 
 PhD in Education

 

 
 
 
 
 PhD in Management

 

 
 
 Master of Agriculture major in

 
 
 Animal Science

 Crop Protection

 Crop Science

 
 
 
 
 MS in Agricultural Economics

 

 
 
 
 
 MS Biology

 

 
 
 Master of Arts in Education major in:

 
 
 Educational Management

 Guidance Counseling

 Elementary Education

 Secondary Education

 Curriculum and Instruction

 Mathematics

 Biology

 Chemistry

 
 
 MS Agricultural Engineering major in:

 
 
 Soil and Water Management

 Crop Processing and Handling

 Agricultural Power and Machinery

 Design and Management

 
 
 Master of Engineering major in:

 
 
 Water Engineering and Management

 Computer Engineering

 Electrical Engineering

 Electronics and Communications Engineering

 
 
 
 
 MS Agricultural Extension

 

 
 
 
 
 Master in Business Administration

 

 
 
 Master of Management major in:

 
 
 Human Resource Management

 Organizational Management

 
 
 
 
 Master in Information Technology

 

 
 
 
 
 Master of Veterinary Studies

 

 
 
 
 
 Graduate Diploma in Physical Education

 

 
 
 Master in Public Administration

 
 UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 

 
 
 
 
 1 
 Bachelor of Agricultural Entrepreneurship (BAE) 

 
 2 
 Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies (BAELS) 

 
 3 
 Bachelor of Arts in Journalism (BA Journ) 

 
 4 
 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science (BAPS) 

 
 5 
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education BECE) 

 
 6 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education (BEE) 

 
 7 
 Bachelor of Exercise and Sports Sciences (BSESS) 

 
 8 
 Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) 

 
 9 
 Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BS Acc) 

 
 10 
 Bachelor of Science in Agricultural and Bio systems Engineering (BSABE) 

 
 11 
 Bachelor of Science in Agriculture (BS Agri) 

 
 12 
 Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics (BSAM) 

 
 13 
 Bachelor of Science in Architecture (BS Arch) 

 
 14 
 Bachelor of Science in Biology (BS Bio) 

 
 15 
 Bachelor of Science in Business Management (BSBM) 

 
 16 
 Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE) 

 
 17 
 Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCoE) 

 
 18 
 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BS CS) 

 
 19 
 Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BS Crim) 

 
 20 
 Bachelor of Science in Development  Management (BSDM) 

 
 21 
 Bachelor of Science in Economics (BS Econ) 

 
 22 
 Bachelor of Science in Electrical  Engineering (BSEE) 

 
 23 
 Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering (BSECE) 

 
 24 
 Bachelor of Science in Environmental Science (BSES) 

 
 25 
 Bachelor of Science in Food Technology (BSFT) 

 
 26 
 Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM) 

 
 27 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering (BSIE) 

 
 28 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Security Management (BSISM) 

 
 29 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology major in Automotive (BS IndT- AT) 

 
 30 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology major in Electrical (BS IndT – ET) 

 
 31 
 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Technology major in Electronics (BS IndT – ELEX) 

 
 32 
 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT) 

 
 33 
 Bachelor of Science in international Studies (BSIS) 

 
 34 
 Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology (BSMT) 

 
 35 
 BS Midwifery (this course may only be pursued by those who already have the license for Midwife) 

 
 36 
 Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) 

 
 37 
 Bachelor of Science in Office Administration (BSOA) 

 
 38 
 Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BS Psy) 

 
 39 
 Bachelor of Science in Social Work (BS SW) 

 
 40 
 Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management (BSTM) 

 
 41 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education (English, Science, Filipino, Math, Social Science) (BSE) 

 
 42 
 Bachelor of Special Needs Education (BSNE) 

 
 43 
 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education (BTLE) 

 
 44 
 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) 

 
 45 
 Diploma in Midwifery (two-year program) 

 
 
 ****

 
 Science High School

 Elementary Education

 Pre-Elementary Education

----- DOC | August 2015: Gender and Development Focal Point System | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/august-2015-gender-and-development-focal-point-system/ | 2018-01-15 -----
Gender and Development Focal Point System

 The Cavite State University Gender and Development Focal Point System together with the office of Senator Pia S. Cayetano, conducted an Orientation on Gender and Development on August 13, 2015 at the University's International House II.

 The program was attended by the GAD coordinators and alternates, university employees, faculty members and students. Topics discussed include Orientation on Sex and Gender Roles and Agents of Gender Socialization (discussed by Prof. Caridad S. Merced, GAD Alternate Rosario Campus), Gender Issues (Prof. Cecilia F. Lorenzana, GAD Coordinator, Rosario Campus), Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 or RA 7877 (Mr. Victoriano N. Rodil, GAD Coordinator, Cavite City  Campus), and Sexism in Language (Ms. Ma. Soledad M. Lising,       GAD Coordinator for Extension).

 

 Topics on Maternal and Child Health and Violence Against Women and their Children were discussed by Dr. Vivian Estaquio, Health Consultant, Political Officer and Legislative Staff of the office of Senator Pia S. Cayetano.

 The University officials headed by the University President, Dr. Divinia C. Chavez; Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Dr. Maria Agnes P. Nuestro; Vice-President for Administrative and Support Services, Dr. Hernando D. Robles; Vice-President for External and Business Affairs, Dr. Luzviminda A. Rodrin; Director for Human Resource Development Office, Dr. Mary Jane D. Tepora; and, Chair of Gender and Development Focal Point System, Dr. Nelia C. Cresino were also present during the entire activity.

 Dr. Bettina Joyce P.  Ilagan, GAD Coordinator for College of Arts and Sciences and Dr. Analita d.M. Magsino, GAD Coordinator for College of Agriculture, Forestry, Environmental and Natural Resources served as the moderators during the Open Forum. (M.S.M. Lising)

----- DOC | July 2015: Women's Month Celebration | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/july-2015-womens-month-celebration/ | 2018-01-15 -----
“Juana, Desisyon Mo ay Mahalaga  sa Kinabukasan ng Bawat Isa, Ikaw Na!” 
 
 

 

 Inspiring Stories of  Filipino Women  Leaders 

 

 

 

  

 Street Dance Competition 

 Winners 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 Seminar Workshop on the Integration of Gender and Development in the Course Syllabi 

 

 

 
 Gender Mainstreaming in the University

 Strategies for Gender-Mainstreaming: from GAD to CEDAW

 The Framework and Principles of Gender-Fair Education

 Pedagogical Approaches in Integrating Gender/ Women's Issues and Human Rights Concerns in the Curriculum

 Strategies for Analyzing Sexist Incidents in the Classroom

 Strategies for Creating/Ensuring Gender-Fair Education

----- DOC | Office of the Student Affairs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/office-of-the-student-affairs/ | 2018-01-15 -----
As an institution of higher learning, the Cavite State University caters to the needs of students, not only in the acquisition of education but also in their personality development. To ensure that the students' potentials for advancement are maximized, the Student Welfare Services was established. The Student Welfare Services had been renamed Office of Student Affairs (OSA). It is a major project under the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

 The Office of Student Affairs started as one of the functional units of the then Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC) in 1980. Through the years, the name of the Office was changed to Student Services Project in 1986, Student Services in 1989, Student Welfare Services in 1991 and renamed again to Office of Student Affairs in 1998 when DSAC was elevated into a university, the Cavite State University. Since then, the Office has been providing different student services to its clients such as guidance and counseling, admission and testing, and student development services like student organization and socio-cultural affairs, student publication and placement of students and graduates. The mandated National Service Training Program (NSTP) subject was also offered by the Office in 2002. The Office will continue and shall remain committed to provide student welfare and development activities to the CvSU academic community and the public.

 OSA GOALS

 The goals of the Office of Student Affairs are the following:

 
 to look after the educational, vocational, as well as the personal development need of the students;

 to assist the students to maximize their potentials by helping them understand themselves and their environment and to enhance their psychological growth towards socialized maturity.

 
 OSA OBJECTIVES

 The objectives of the Office of Student Affairs are the following:

 
 Provide counseling and testing to students so that they may recognize and accept themselves and develop their potentials/capabilities;

 provide information, training, placement and follow-up services to students, graduates and other clienteles;

 provide financial assistance to the needy and deserving students;

 provide avenues to hone students' talents and interest to ensure social and cultural growth; and

 develop skills and potentials of student writers

----- DOC | NCRDEC | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ncrdec/ | 2018-01-15 -----
Its' Creation:

 
 Republic Act No. 8435 – Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA) of 1997 that promulgates the “prioritization of education and training to accelerate social progress and promote total human liberation and development”.

 Brainchild of the National Integrated Research Development and Extension Program (NIRDEAP) for Coffee of the Cavite State University (CvSU) and the Bureau of Agriculture Research (BAR).

 The NIRDEAP for Coffee, which was written and implemented in 1999, was in response to the call of the AFMA to uplift the Philippine coffee industry.

 
 Basic Certainties:

 
 The potential of coffee industry in contributing to the betterment of the Philippine economy will only be realized if concerted effort to improve the industry is pushed.

 The re-entry of high quality grade of Philippine Coffee to the world market such as CAVITE AA and others may further boost the coffee industry thereby alleviating poverty in the countryside.

 The initiative and present accomplishments of the Cavite State University in coffee research, development and extension, has been instrumental in improving the productivity of coffee farmers and the quality of coffee in the province and in national level.

 
 Vision / Mission / Goals / Strategies

 Vision: 

 
 To be locally and internationally known for coffee research, development and extension program.

 
 Mission: 

 
 To strengthen research and development activities and enhance the extension delivery system that will lead to increased productivity, sustainability, and global competitiveness of the Philippine coffee.

 
 Goals: 

 
 Improve varieties of coffee in the Philippines;

 Maintain a genebank and germplasm collection for coffee;

 Develop an environmentally sound production and processing technologies that will improve the socio-economic well-being of coffee farmers and stakeholders;

 Produce technically-equipped coffee production specialists;

 Improve national and international linkages;

 Support policies that will increase the Coffee Research, Development and Extension Programs (RD&E) in the country.

 
 Strategies:

 
 Conduct scientific research that will improve the varieties of coffee;

 Establish a Mother Clonal Garden (MCG) and germplasm collection;

 Conduct research activities that will lead to the development of sound production and processing technologies;

 Conduct trainings, symposia, workshops and the like to cater the needs of coffee farmers, researchers, specialists, and other stakeholders of the coffee industry;

 Strong partnership with farming communities, research institutions and other agencies/organizations that share NCRDEC's mission; and

 Provide studies that would give an in-depth analysis of the coffee industry for policy, advocacy and law makers.

 
 Research and Extension

 RESEARCH DEPARTMENT 

 Responsible for the conduct of research activities that will lead to the development of sound production, processing and marketing technologies. It shall also be responsible in producing high yielding and good quality seedlings of all coffee varieties.

 EXTENSION DEPARTMENT 

 Responsible in the establishment of demo farms, conduct of trainings, providing technical assistance and production and distribution of IEC materials as well as establishing linkages with international, government and non-government organizations.

----- DOC | OGS/OLC Program Offerings | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/ogs-olc-program-offerings/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Doctor of Philosophy in Agriculture, major in:

 
 Crop Science

 Animal Science

 Crop Protection

 
 Doctor of Philosophy in Education, major in:

 
 Education Management

 
 Doctor of Philosophy in Management*

 Master of Arts in Education, major in:

 
 Biology

 Chemistry

 Curriculum and Instruction

 Educational Management

 Mathematics

 Elementary Education

 Secondary Education

 
 Master of Agriculture, major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 
 Master of Engineering, MAJOR IN:

 
 Computer Engineering

 Water Engineering and Management

 General Civil Engineering

 Construction Management

 Structural Engineering

 
 Master in Information Technology

 Master of Management

 Master of Business Administration

 
 With Thesis

 Non-Thesis

 
 Master of Professional Studies, major in:

 
 Public Administration

 
 Master of Science in Agriculture, major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Protection

 Crop Science

 
 Master of Science in Biology

 MASTER OF SCIENCE IN FOOD SCIENCE

 *offered to foreign students through consortium with other universities*

----- DOC | OGS/OLC Admission Requirements | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/ogs-olc-admission-requirements/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Admission Requirements for Graduate Programs

 
 Duly accomplished application form for admission and three (3) copies of passport size pictures;

 Original or authenticated official transcript of records bearing the official seal(s) of the school(s) attended;

 Two (2) sealed letters of recommendation from former professor/s and/or immediate supervisor/s which may be personally delivered and/or mailed to the GS-OLC;

 Non-refundable application fee of Php150.00 for Filipino citizens or US$50.00 for foreign nationals (figures may be changed without prior notice);

 Approved permit to study (for public school teachers);

 Photocopy of student's visa and passport (for foreign nationals only); and

 Certificate of English Proficiency from the Department of Languages and Mass Communication (DLMC), College of Arts and Sciences (CAS). In addition, a student coming from countries where English is not a medium of instruction shall have a passing score of 500 in the TOEFL.

 
 An applicant must be a holder of a master's degree (doctorate program) or bachelor's degree (master's program) from a reputable educational institution and with a grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.5 (master's program) or 2.0 (doctorate program). An applicant with previous field of specialization different from this graduate program shall be required by the Screening Committee to take the recommended preparatory courses.

----- DOC | College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/college-of-veterinary-medicine-and-biomedical-sciences/ | 2018-01-13 -----
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

 Cavite State University offered the degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) program in 1997 to strengthen its thrust in the field of Agriculture. It was also in accordance with the Agenda for Development of the then, Don Severino Agricultural College.

 Initially, the program was under the Department of Animal and Veterinary Sciences of the College of Agriculture, Forestry and Environment and Natural Resources. In August 2000, the program was handled by the newly formed College of Veterinary Medicine.

 Faculty of the college are graduates from the premier veterinary education institution. Most members have finished graduate degrees. The faculty members are engaged in full-time teaching, research and extension activities.

 Structurally, the College has two main buildings: the Veterinary Teaching Hospital Building and the Administration and Academic Building, with the former housing the Animal Clinic and fully air-conditioned laboratories. The Animal Clinic serves as a venue for students to acquire hands-on experience in disease diagnosis, treatment and control in companion, exotic and farm animals to augment and validate their theoretical knowledge in veterinary medicine, surgery and pathology. Special instructions are given in veterinary therapeutics, pre and post-operative care, diagnostic technique, prescription writing, case record keeping, hospital administration and veterinarian-client relationship.

 Furthermore, the CVM utilizes the CvSU farm in teaching farm animal restraint, dosing, preventive management and surgery. The farm also provides CVM with experimental animals and specimens for instruction and research.

 Aside from the primary function of instruction, the CVM serves as a units for veterinary research and extension. It has established research and extension linkages with other government and private agencies such as the Philippine Carabao Center, Dairy Training Research Institute, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Cavite City Botanical and Zoological Park, Center for Philippine Raptors, Regional Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Batangas Dairy Cooperative, University of the Philippines in Los Baños and private institutions, farms and feedmills. These agencies also serve as venues of learning for our veterinary interns.

 College Vision

 To be a Center of Development in Veterinary Education recognized for molding competent and upright veterinarians.

 College Mission

 To provide quality instruction, research and extension services in the field of Veterinary Medicine through the development, application and dissemination of relevant knowledge and skills in public health, wildlife conservation, animal production, management and welfare; prevention treatment and control of animal diseases and zoonoses which shall benefit the society and the environment.

 GRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Master in Veterinary Studies (open for non-vets)

 Master in Veterinary Science

 
 UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (6 years)

 BS Veterinary Technology (4 years)

 BS Animal Health and Management (4 years)

 BS Biomedical Science (4 years)

 
 UNITS OF THE CVMBS

 Basic Veterinary Sciences

 
 Veterinary Anatomy

 Veterinary Physiology

 Veterinary Pharmacology

 Zootechnics (Prod'n, Nutrition and Breeding)

 
 Immunopathology and Microbiology

 
 Veterinary Microbiology

 Veterinary Pathology

 Veterinary Parasitology

 
 Clinical and Population Health

 
 Veterinary Public Health

 Veterinary Medicine

 Veterinary Surgery

 Veterinary Clinics

 
 Biomedical Science and Biotechnology

 Veterinary Medical Center

 CVMBS Officials 

 
 
 
 DR. ALVIN WILLIAM A. ALVAREZ - Dean 

 
 DR. CHERRY B. REYES - Chair, Dept. of Basic Veterinary Sciences 

 
 DR. NELSON J. MONTIALTO - Chair, Dept. of Immunopathology & Microbiology 

 
 DR. REZIN C. BAHIA - Chair, Dept. of Clinical & Population Health 

 
 DR. BENEDICT B. PASCO - Chair, Dept. of Biomedical Science and Biotechnology 

 
 -       Administrator, Veterinary Medical Center 

 
 DR. CHERRY B. REYES - College Secretary 

 
 DR. NELSON J. MONTIALTO - College Registrar 

 
 DR. CHESTER JOSHUA V. SALDAÑA - College Research & Development Coordinator 

 
 DR. BENEDICT B. PASCO - College Extension Coordinator 

 
 DR. CHESTER JOSHUA V. SALDAÑA - College Budget Officer/Inspector 

 
 DR. NOEMI G. DILOY - College Job Placement Coordinator/Guidance Counselor 

 
 DR. REZIN C. BAHIA - College QAAC/In-charge, Reading Room 

 
 DR. EMMANUEL MAGO - Review Center Coordinator 

 
 DR. DESIREE C. DEL MUNDO - College MIS Officer 

 
 DR. GLENN R. MANLAPID - College Property Custodian/Civil Security Officer

----- DOC | College of Sports and Physical Education and Recreation | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/college-of-sports-and-physical-education-and-recreation/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Historical Background

 In 1998, the former Don Severino Agricultural College was converted into a State University by virtue of Republic Act No. 8468. This important event happened on January 22, 1998, hence the Cavite State University.

 In the first semester of school year 1998-1999, the Department of Physical Education and Recreation under the School of Education was elevated into a college. It was conceived to provide the students adequate opportunities to continously participate in a development program of physical activities which are helpful, intellectually invigorating, morally uplifting, socially insignificant, culturally enhancing, environment oriented and to produce competent manpower to assist in the preparation and implementation of programs in physical education, sports and recreation.

 College Vision

 The College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation shall provide leadership; formulate policies and set priorities and directions in the promotion and development of all amateurs sports in Southern Tagalog Region. This will involve all Provincial Training Institutes, other state universities and colleges and interested public and private institutions in the region.

 College Mission

 The task of the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation is to provide undergraduate and advanced instruction in physical education and recreation sciences. It strives to develop persons committed to the pursuit of excellence in physical education and recreation studies who are able to translate into action concepts and values necessary to improve the quality of life of the Filipino. It also aims to promote physical education, sports and recreation among the studentry and other constituents of the University.

 Courses Offered

 
 Bachelor of Physical Education (BPE)

 Bachelor in Sports and Recreational Management (BSRM)

 
 Applicants for admission to these programs must be a High School graduate of any public/private school, and must take the placement examination given by the university

 
  Diploma in Physical Education (DPE)

 
 Applicants seeking admission to the DPE program must be a holder of any Bachelor's Degree

 CSPEAR Officials 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 2024 

 
 
 
 Department Chairperson of Physical Education, Exercise and Sports Science

Program Coordinator BPED

IMDU

College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Clark L. Costa 

 
 Department Chairperson of Physical Education

Program Coordinator BSESS

Guidance Facilitator

IMDU

5S Member

College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Erlinda C. Eustaquio 

 
 Research Coordinator

Sports Coordinator

IMDU Prof. Joel D. Anajao 

 
 College Registrar Prof. Mary Ann R. Cardines 

 
 College Socio-Cultural Coordinator

OJT BSESS SM Coordinator Prof. Zion M. Cleto 

 
 Property Custodian Officer

5S Officer

Pollution Control Officer

Canvasser Mr. Amiel M. Cortez 

 
 Extension Coordinator

GAD Coordinator Prof. Jazmin P. Cubillo 

 
 College Misdemeanor Member Prof. Ana Liza R. Mojica 

 
 College Secretary

Quality Assurance Coordinator

OJT BPED Coordinator Prof. Guylaine T. Nueva 

 
 In-Charge, Reading Room

Job Placement Coordinator Prof. Clarisse Ann C. Papa 

 
 Budget Officer

Civil Security Officer

College Misdemeanor Member

Canvasser Prof. Angelito F. Penales 

 
 GAD Alternate

OJT BSESS SC Coordinator

Canvasser Mr. Ray-Ann H. Penus 

 
 PIO

Alumni Affairs Prof. Jeffrey P. Romera 

 
 Management Information System Officer

College Inspector

Canvasser

College HR Coordinator Mr. Leanie M. Icamina 

 
 Facilities Equipment Reservation Officer

Liason Officer

Property Custodian Member

Pollution Control Member Mr. Janvier A. Crucido 

 
 Property Custodian Member

Civil Security Member Mr. Abelardo C. Crystal

----- DOC | Academic Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/academic-programs/ | 2018-01-13 -----
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS: 

 BS Nursing

 BS Medical Technology

 Diploma in Midwifery

 
 PROGRAM OBJECTIVES

 GENERAL OBJECTIVE: 

 To prepare the students to be competent nurse practitioners/teachers

 SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES: 

 
 To train students in the prevention of diseases and restoration of health.

 To equip graduates with the needed skills in the conduct of community and extension services to improve and enhance the nursing practice.

 To train students to conduct research and package technologies on appropriate and effective methods of preventing diseases and maintaining health.

----- DOC | Mission, Vision, Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/mission-vision-goals/ | 2018-01-13 -----
College Vision

 The College of Nursing of Cavite State University envisions being one of the nation's leading nursing institutions in providing excellent instruction and opportunities for research, practice, and service.

 College Mission

 The mission of College of Nursing is to educate students, advance the discipline of nursing through research, provide service that is responsive to the health care needs of the public, and demonstrate local, national and international leadership for the profession.

 College Goals

 The College of Nursing shall achieve the following goals:

 
 Produce globally competitive graduates with highly employability

 Produce a supportive collegial environment that facilitates research more effectively; forwards the science of nursing

 Develop and implement extension services in partnership with various stake holders for the promotion, prevention, and restoration of health of the individual, family and society.

 Achieve passing rate from 70 to 100 percent in Nursing Licensure Examination

 To be recognized as the Center of Development/Center of Excellence by the Commission on Higher Education

----- DOC | CEIT Newsletter | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ceit-newsletter/ | 2018-01-13 -----
2015

 
 July – August 2015 

 July – August 2015 – continued 

 May – June 2015 

 May – June 2015 – continued 

 March – April 2015 

 March – April 2015 – continued 

 January – February 2015 

 January – February 2015 – continued 

 
 2014

 
 December 2014 – 2 

 December 2014 – 1 

 November 2014 – 2 

 November 2014 – 1 

 October 2014 

 September 2014 – 2 

 September 2014 – 1 

 August 2014 

 July 2014 

 June 2014 

 May 2014 

 April 2014 

 March 2014 – 2 

 March 2014 – 1 

 February 2014 – 2 

 February 2014 – 1 

 January – 2 

 January – 1 

 
 Extension Services 

 
 Adopt a Barangay – Barangay Alulod (2012-2020)

----- DOC | CEIT Officials | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ceit-officials/ | 2018-01-13 -----
CEIT Officials 

 
 
 
 Key Officials 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Agriculture and Food Engineering (DAFE) - Engr. Kevin E. Titiwa 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Civil Engineering (DCE) -  Engr. Roslyn P. Peña 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (DCEE)

In-charge, Industrial Automation Center -  Dr. Michael T. Costa 

 
 Chairperson, Department of Industrial Engineering and Technology (DIET) -  Dr. Willie C. Buclatin  

 
 Chairperson, Department of Information Technology (DIT) - Mr. Marlon R. Pereña  

 
 College Secretary -  Prof. Aileen A. Ardina 

 
 Budget Officer - Prof. Marivic G. Dizon 

 
 College Registrar  -  Prof. Florence M. Banasihan 

 
 College Records Officer - Prof. Jake R. Ersando 

 
 Research Services Coordinator - Dr. Edwin R. Arboleda 

 
 Extension Services Coordinator -  Prof. Charlotte B. Carandang 

 
 R&E Monitoring and Evaluation Unit Coordinator - Prof. Gladys G. Perey 

 
 Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator -  Prof. Poinsettia A. Vida 

 
 Assistant College Quality Assurance and Accreditation Coordinator -  Prof. Anabelle J. Almarez 

 
 OJT Coordinator - Prof. Efren R. Rocillo 

 
 Graduate Programs Coordinator

In-charge, Material Testing Laboratory - Engr. Larry E. Rocela 

 
 Knowledge Management Unit Coordinator - Prof. Vanessa G. Coronado 

 
 College MIS, PIO Officer - Prof. Marlon F. Cruzate 

 
 College Property Custodian -  Prof. Ezra Marie F. Ramos 

 
 College Canvasser

In-charge, Electrical and Electronics Laboratory - Mr. Emerson C. Lascano 

 
 College Guidance Counselor for BSABE, BSIT, BSCS, and BSOA - Dr. Jo Anne C. Nuestro 

 
 College Guidance Counselor for BSCE, BS Arch, BSECE, BSEE, BSCpE, CTN, BSIE and BIT programs - Prof. Andy A. Dizon 

 
 Principal GAD Coordinator - Prof. Julie C. Lontoc 

 
 GAD Alternate Coordinator - Prof. Ma. Fatima B. Zuñiga 

 
 Sports and Socio-Cultural Development  Coordinator -  Prof. Garry M. Cahibaybayan 

 
 College Job Placement Officer - Prof. Simeon Daez 

 
  College Civil Security Officer (ES and DIET Buildings) -  Prof. Ronald E. Araño 

 
  College Civil Security Officer (CEIT and DIT Buildings) -  Prof. Arlis D. Neri 

 
 In-charge, Simulation and Math Laboratory - Prof. Sheryl D. Fenol 

 
 In-charge, College Reading Room -  Prof. Lilia O. Torres  

 
 University Web Master -  Prof. Russel L. Villacarlos 

 
 Assistant University Web Master - Prof. James Angelo V. Aves 

 
 University Computer Center (UCC) Manager -  Prof. Emeline C. Guevarra  

 
 Head, UCC Laboratory and Software Section -  Prof. Ace Amiel E. Malicsi 

 
 Head, UCC Hardware and Maintenance Section -  Prof. Bienvenido C. Sarmiento

----- DOC | CEIT Academic Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/ceit-academic-programs/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Programs 

 
 
 
 BS Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering (formerly BS Agricultural Engineering) 

 
 BS Architecture 

 
 BS Civil Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Engineering 

 
 BS Computer Science 

 
 BS Electrical Engineering 

 
 BS Electronics Engineering (formerly BS Electronics & Communications Engineering) 

 
 BS Industrial Engineering 

 
 BS Industrial Technology (formerly Bachelor of Industrial Technology) 

Major in:

 

 Automotive Technology

 Electrical Technology

 Electronics Technology

 

 
 BS Information Technology

----- DOC | CEIT Mission, Vision, and Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ceit-mission-vision-and-goals/ | 2018-01-13 -----
College Vision

 To be the center of excellence in the fields of engineering, industrial, and information technology.

 College Mission

 The College of Engineering and Information Technology was established to provide quality and affordable education through relevant instruction, research, and extension in the fields of engineering, information technology, and allied technologies towards the development of globally competent and morally upright individuals.

 College Goal

 The College shall endeavor to achieve the following goals:

 
  Produce globally competent graduates who are imbued with technical expertise in the field of engineering and information technology, with strong support for environmental preservation and guided by positive values and high ethical standards;

  Conduct relevant research and development activities along engineering and information technology that would contribute to sustainable development in its service areas;

 Implement effective training and outreach programs that emphasize self-help, critical thinking and life-long learning;

 Manage engineering and information technology projects and enterprises  to promote economically viable and environment-friendly approaches and techniques; and

 Establish strong linkages with non-governmental organizations, other government entities and the basic sector for the realization of common goals.

----- DOC | CEIT Historical Background | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ceit-historical-background/ | 2018-01-13 -----
The COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CEIT) started as the  Department of Agricultural Engineering  in1976. It offered basic agricultural engineering courses required by the BSA curriculum.

 In 1985, the unit was renamed to Department of Engineering and Agro-Industrial Technology (DEAIT). By virtue of Board Resolution No. 5, S1985, it started to offer Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering on the first semester of SY 1985 – 1986.

 In 1992, the department was elevated to the School status. This resulted in the creation of two (2) distinct departments: the  Engineering Science Department  and the  Agricultural Engineering Department . The formation of these departments delineated the basic engineering science courses from the agricultural engineering courses.

 In 1993, the  Department of Engineering Technology  was created. The newly created department offers non-degree courses in engineering technology.

 In 1998, when the College was elevated to University status, the  School of Engineering (SEng)  was subsequently elevated to the College level and was named as the  College of Engineering (CEng). 

 To accommodate IT courses offerings; the College was renamed as the  College of Engineering and Information Technology (CEIT)  in 2001.

 As approved by the Board of Regents, CEIT offers various engineering programs, computer-based programs, and industrial technology programs.

----- DOC | College of Economics, Management and Development Studies | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/college-of-economics-management-and-development-studies/ | 2018-01-13 -----
HISTORY

 The College of Economics, Management and Development Studies started its existence as a college in 1998 by virtue of Republic Act 8468 converting the Don Severino Agricultural College to Cavite State University.

 The CEMDS has its humble beginning as one of the departments (Department of Social Sciences) under the Office of Higher Education (OHE) of the then Don Severino Agricultural College.  In the early 1980's the Department of Social Sciences was replaced by two departments namely; Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness (DAEAb) and the Department of Rural Development Studies (DRDS) still under the Office of Higher Education.  However, with the creation of four schools under the Don Severino Agricultural College in 1992 namely; the School of Agriculture, School of Education, School of Arts and Sciences and School of Engineering, the office of Higher Education was finally dissolved and the two departments, DAEAb and DRDS were placed under the School of Agriculture.

 On June 10, 1996, through the Board of Trustees Resolution No. 57 series of 1996, the organization structure of DSAC was amended in preparation for its conversion into a University. The School of Agriculture was expanded and renamed School of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and   Natural Resources (SAFENR). With this development, tow of its several departments (DAEAb and DRDS) were treated as one department and renamed as the Department of  Economics, Management and  Development Studies (DEMDS) which was later subdivided into three major units, that is, Economics, Management, and Development Studies.  For several years, the DEMDS was one of the five departments which composed the SAFENR.

 On January 22, 1998 by virtue of Republic Act 8468, the Don Severino Agricultural College was converted into a state university and named Cavite State University (CvSU).  With this important development, the four existing schools were elevated into colleges. At the same time, the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation was created while the Department of Economics, Management and Development Studies was elevated into a college, now known as the College of Economics, Management and Development Studies.

       Initially, the CEMDS has three departments under its supervision, the Department of Economics, Department of Management and Department of Development Studies. In 2008, CEMDS had an additional department with the creation of the Department of Accountancy with the Bachelor of Science in Accountancy as its initial program offering. Various programs, both graduate and undergraduate, are being offered by the College.  Currently these are:  Bachelor of Science in Accountancy, Bachelor of Science in Business Management, Bachelor of Science in Economics, Bachelor of Science in Development Management, Bachelor of Science in International Studies, Mater in Business Administration, Master of Professional Studies and Master of Management.

       CEMDS, now composed of four departments, is continuously strengthening its capability to provide quality service to its clients particularly in the fields of Accountancy, Economics, Management and Development Studies.  Like other colleges and units of the University, it works very hard for the attainment of its goals and objectives and consequently, the University mission and vision.

 College Mission

 The College of Economics, Management and Development Studies shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in economics, management and development studies through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shal support the various production units of the University.

 College Objectives

 
 To produce development-oriented economists, entrepreneurs, managers, researchers, development workers and other professional groups who will be proficient in the fields of economics, business and development management.

 To generate development-oriented researches in the fields of economics, business, development management and other related fields.

 To provide training and assistance to target clientele for continuous improvement of individual and organizational performance.

 To assist in the different income-generating units in the University.

 
 Courses Offered

 BS ACCOUNTANCY 

 BS BUSINESS MANAGEMENT 

       Major Fields:

 
 Business Economics

 Financial Management

 Human Resource Development Management

 Marketing Management

 Operations Management

 
 BS ECONOMICS 

       Major Fields:

 
 Agricultural Economics

 Business Economics

 Development Economics

 
 BS DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT 

       Major Fields:

 
 Rural Development Management

 Training Program Management

 
 BS INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 

       Major Fields:

 
 Chinese Studies

 European Studies

 Japanese Studies

 Korean Studies

 Southeast Asian Studies

 
 BS ENTREPRENEURSHIP 

 COLLEGE OFFICIALS 

 
 
 
 NAME DESIGNATION 

 
 
 
 Marlon A. Mojica Dean 

 
 Jenny Beb F. Ebo College Secretary 

 
 Sherrie Rose M. Rupido College Registrar 

 
 Tita C. Lopez Chairperson, Department of Management 

 
 Luzviminda A. Rodrin Chairperson, Department of Economics 

 
 Alberto M. Aguilar Chairperson, Department of Development Studies 

 
 Dolores L. Aguilar Chairperson, Department of Accountancy 

 
 Cecilia T. Cayao R&E Coordinator, Department of Management 

 
 Elizabeth E. Polinga R&E Coordinator, Department of Economics 

 
 Marietta C. Mojica R&E Coordinator, Department of Development Studies 

 
 Ma. Isolde R. Sustrina R&E Coordinator, Department of Accountancy 

 
 Florindo C. Ilagan OJT Coordinator, Department of Management 

 
 Reinalene Joy M. Ayos OJT Coordinator, Department of Economics 

 
 Richelle Joy A. Pasion OJT Coordinator, Department of Development Studies 

 
 Ludivinia F. Victorino OJT Coordinator, Department of Accountancy 

 
 Roderick M. Rupido Coordinator, Graduate Program 

 
 Luzviminda A. Rodrin Coordinator, QuAA Center 

 
 Maurin D. Madrid In-charge, Reading Room 

 
 Mailah M. Ulep Coordinator, Research Services 

 
 Sheryl S. Ersando Coordinator, Extension Services 

 
 Nelia E. Feranil Coordinator, R&E Monitoring and Evaluation Unit 

 
 Mary Grace A. Ilagan Coordinator, Knowledge Management Unit 

 
 Gener T. Cueno Coordinator, Sports and Socio-Cultural Development 

 
 Lina C. Abogadie Coordinator for On-The-Job-Training 

 
 Jemmalene O. Viado Job Placement Officer 

 
 Maria Isolde R. Sustrina Budget Officer 

 
 Thea Maries P. Perez Coordinator, Gender and Development Program 

 
 Tania Marie P. Melo Alternate Coordinator, GAD 

 
 Betsy Rose S. Fidel College Canvasser 

 
 Janice E. Paiton College Records Officer 

 
 Rowena R. Noceda College Guidance Coordinator 

 
 Gilberto S. David College Civil Security Officer 

 
 Ma. Grasya M. Tibayan College Management Information Systems Officer 

 
 Sancho M. Bayot College Property Custodian

----- DOC | CED Curricular Programs | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ced-curricular-programs/ | 2018-01-13 -----
CURRICULAR PROGRAMS 

 Pre- Elementary

 Elementary

 Secondary (Science Curriculum)

 
 Junior High School

 Senior High School

 
 Undergraduate Programs

 
 Bachelor of Elementary Education 

 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education 

 Bachelor of Special Needs Education 

 Bachelor of Technology and Livelihood Education 
 
 Home Economics

 

 Bachelor of Secondary Education 
 
 English

 Mathematics

 Science

 Filipino

 Social Studies

 

 
  (Non-Degree Program)

 
 Teacher Certificate Program

----- DOC | CED Goals | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ced-goals/ | 2018-01-13 -----
CED GOALS

 The College of Education lives up to the attainment of the following goals:

 
 offering varied under undergraduate and graduate degree courses leading to various professions that will cater to the needs of the society;

 offering of short-term courses that will directly benefit the client system;

 improvement of  student performance;

 improvement of facilities for both students and facilitators of learning; and

 strengthening of linkage between research and the client system.

----- DOC | CED History | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/ced-history/ | 2018-01-13 -----
HISTORY

 The College of Education started as the School of Education (SEd) in 1992, with 44 faculty and 343 students, under the supervision of Dr. Constancia G. Cueno as the first Dean.

 Initially, SEd offered the programs Bachelor of Secondary Education (BSE) with Mathematics, Biology, Chemistry, Home Economics and Technology, P.E. and Recreation, and Agricultural Arts as major fields; and Bachelor of Elementary Education (BEE) with Mathematics, Science Home Economics and Technology, General Education, Physical Education and Recreation, and Work Education as areas of specialization. It maintained the high school project, the Secondary Education Laboratory School as a laboratory school for its BSE students. The graduate program, Master of Arts in Education (Elementary Education, Secondary Education and Science Education with specialization Mathematics, Chemistry and Biology) was maintained in coordination with the Office of the Graduate Studies. In 1994, SEd started to offer Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management (DHRM). In 1995, it established a special project, the Child Development Center (CDC) which admitted elementary pupils, which eventually become a laboratory school for BSE and BEE students of the Teacher education Department.

 In 1996, Dr. Lorna L. Penales was designated as the new dean of SEd. New developments were implemented. In 1997, the four-year degree program, Bachelor of Science in Hotel and Restaurant Management (BSHRM), began to be offered by virtue of the Board of Trustees Resolution No. 54, s. 1996. This was followed by the offerings of the two-year non-degree program, Diploma in Tourism Management (DTM), the Certificate in Garments Technology (CGT), the Certificate in Fibercraft Technology (CFT), and the Certificate in Cosmetology (CCoS). The Laboratory School Curriculum was also revised and changed to Science Curriculum. In 1998, SEd started to offer another degree program, the Bachelor in Physical Education (BPE). The doctoral program, Ph.D. in Education was also offered in coordination with the Office of Graduate Studies.

 With the conversion of Don Severino Agricultural College into a state university, the Cavite State University, in January 1998, the School of Education was then eventually elevated into a college, the College of Education. In the same year, CDC was formally subsumed under CEd. However, CDC continued to finance its own personal services and other operating expenses. On the other hand, the Physical Education Department was elevated into a separate college, now called the College of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation (CSPEAR). CEd also established various income generating and instructional projects such as the Ornamental Garden, the CEd Science Mini-Centrum, and the University Bakeshoppe, the latter which functions both as an income-generating project and as laboratory for H.E. and HRM students. The College also fully operationalized the Multipurpose Quadrangle as the venue of the various functions and in-door activities in the University.

 The year 1998 also saw the College preparing for Level I accreditation by Accrediting Agency of Chartered Colleges and Universities in the Philippines, Inc. (AACCUP) of its B.S.E. and B.E.E. Programs.

 Preliminary survey of the two programs was conducted in 1999. In the same year, CEd started preparing two other programs, BSHRM and MAEd, for Level I accreditation (Candidate Status). Self-survey of both programs was conducted from June to August, 2000.

 The year 2000 ushered in with new hopes for development and recognition for CEd. Its two programs, BSE and BEE were reviewed for formal survey by AACCUP. Both curricular programs were revised based on CHED Standards (CHED Memorandum Circular No. 11, s. 1999) and implemented during the first semester of school year 2000-2001.

 In 2001, four programs were accredited by AACCUP. MAEd and BSHRM programs were awarded Candidate Status while BEE and BSE programs were awarded as Level I (Accredited). The College also began offering the Teacher Certificate Program (TCP) by virtue of the Board of Regents Resolution Number 40, s. 2001. In the same year, CEd began the operation of University Hostel, popularly known as the Hostel Tropicana which serves both as laboratory facility for BSHRM, DHRM, DTM and Home Economics Education students.

 In 2003, the College started to offer Bachelor of Science in Tourism and Resort Management.

 In 2004, Dr. Cecilia B. Banaag was designated as the Dean of CEd. In the current year, CDC was converted into a Science Elementary School and remained a Laboratory School for CEd BEE students. The CEd Research Journal was first published to serve as a venue of new developments and innovations in various fields in education.

 In December 2005, both BEE and BSE programs were elevated to Level II (Re-accredited), while the MAEd and BSHRM programs were elevated to Level I (Accredited). In the same year, a state of the art audio-visual room was established to cater the needs of the students, faculty and community.

 In 2006, Dr. Divinia C. Chavez was designated as the new dean of the College. In 2007, the Ph.D. in Education program was subjected for accreditation and was awarded Candidate Status by AACCUP. The Secondary Education Laboratory School was renamed to CvSU Science High School with greater emphasis on offering of the Science Curriculum.

 In June 2008, the BSHRM with Certificate of Information System Management program was revised to BSHRM Straight and BSHRM Ladderized programs. In August of the same year, a great milestone happened in the College when its Dean, Dr. Divinia C. Chavez became the new CvSU President. The full operation of the College eventually became directly under the leadership of Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro designated as the new Dean of the College.

 The year 2009 is the period of continuous development and brighter future ahead in terms of instruction, research, extension, infrastructure, resource generation and internationalization as it strives to emerge as a Center of Excellence in Education.

 In 2011, Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo was designated as Dean of the College of Education upon the designation of Dr. Ma. Agnes P. Nuestro as Vice President for Academic Affairs. During her headship, the Bachelor of Science in Tourism and Resort Management (BSTRM) was revised to Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management (BSTM). Likewise, two (2) programs were qualified for Level III status namely Bachelor of Secondary Education and Bachelor of Elementary Education. Further, two (2) were awarded Level II re-accredited programs namely Master of Arts in Education and Bachelor of Science in Hotel and Restaurant Management and two (2) were Level 1 accredited programs namely Doctor of Philosophy in education and Bachelor of Science in Tourism and Resort Management.

 In 2013, Bachelor of Secondary Education and Bachelor of Elementary Education passed the CHED Regional Quality Assessment Team (RQAT). The two programs were also awarded second phase Level III Re-Accredited status in the same year.

 In 2014, the PhD in Education Program received the Level II Re-Accredited status. While in 2015, the BSTM Program undergone and passed the Level II Re-Accredited status and the BSHRM program were qualified for Level III accreditation. Moreover, the MAEd program was awarded with Level III accreditation status.

 In 2016, Dr. Editha G. Reyes was designated as Dean of the College of Education upon the designation of Dr. Rhodora S. Crizaldo as Vice President for Academic Affairs and OIC President of the University. The College has actively maintained its linkage with 48 hotels and restaurants and other establishments and 52 cooperating schools for the On-the-Job Training and Student Teaching Internship of the HRM and Tourism and Education students, respectively.

----- DOC | Trece Martires City | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/trece-martires-city/ | 2018-01-13 -----
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Bachelor of Industrial Technology

 BS Business Management

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Associate in Computer Secretarial

 Certificate in Computer Technician

 Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management

----- DOC | Tanza | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/tanza/ | 2018-01-13 -----
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 BS Business Management

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Associate in Computer Technology

 Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management

----- DOC | Silang | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/silang/ | 2018-01-13 -----
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education

 BS Business Management

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 BS Landscape Design and Management

 BS Tourism and Resort Management

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Certificate in Computer Technician

 Certificate in Computer Secretarial

 Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management

----- DOC | Imus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/imus/ | 2018-01-13 -----
GRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Master of Arts in Education major in:

 
 
 Educational Management

 Guidance Counseling

 Elementary Education

 Secondary Education

 Curriculum and Instruction

 Mathematics

 Biology

 Chemistry

 
 
 Master in Business Administration

 Master in Public Administration

 
 UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 BS Business Management

 BS Computer Science

 BS Entrepreneurship

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 BS Office Administration

 BS Secondary Education

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Associate in Computer Secretarial

 Certificate in Computer Technician

 Diploma in Hotel and Restaurant Management

 Diploma in Entrepreneurship

----- DOC | Carmona Campus | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/carmona-campus/ | 2018-01-13 -----
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education

 Bachelor of Industrial Technology

 BS Business Management

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Associate in Computer Technology

----- DOC | Cavite City | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/cavite-city/ | 2018-01-13 -----
GRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Master of Arts in Education major in:

 
 
 Educational Management

 Guidance Counseling

 Elementary Education

 Secondary Education

 Curriculum and Instruction

 Mathematics

 Biology

 Chemistry

 
 
 Master in Business Administration

 
 UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS

 
 Bachelor of Secondary Education

 Bachelor of Elementary Education

 BS Business Management

 BS Computer Science

 BS Information Technology

 BS Hotel and Restaurant Management

 
 NON-DEGREE COURSES

 
 Associate in Computer Technology

 Basic Seaman Training Course

----- DOC | Library | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/library/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Brief History

 The two-storey University Library started its operation in June 1980, with a collection of 2,946 volumes (consisting of 1,196 titles) turned over from the old high school library. After the books were catalogued,  the library finally opened its door to the users in November 1980. Since its opening, its collection has increased to 106,459 volumes (92,199 titles). It has acquired a total of 5,055 series titles (journals, newsletters, annual reports, newspapers, bulletins, popular magazines, etc.)

 The present University library has been named Ladislao N. Diwa Memorial Library and Museum (LDMLM) since its launching on July 14, 1997, in recognition of the various contributions of Ladislao N. Diwa and his heirs to the library.

 It operates using the OPEN SHELF SYSTEM.

 
 LNDML Vision, Mission, Objectives 

 Collection and Services 

 Guide to CvSU Library 

 Library Rules and Regulations 

 Hours of Service 

 Library Personnel 

 
 
 CvSU Integrated Library System 

 CvSU Library Web OPAC 

 CvSU Library E-Books Collection 

 CvSU Library E-Journals Collection

----- DOC | Library Personnel | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/library-personnel/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Head, University Library -   Princess N. Roderno, RL 

 
 College Librarian I - Nimphas E. Javier, RL 

 
 College Librarian I - Veronica L. De Villa, RL 

 
 Computer Operator I - Erwin C. Rupido 

 
 Administrative Aide III - Kristine M. Mojica 

 
 Administrative Aide III - Paloma A. Vida 

 
 Administrative Aide III - Maharlika L. Villa 

 
 Administrative Aide III - Ma. Cecilia C. Quiñones 

 
 Administrative Aide III -  Ana Rosel M. Rupido 

 
 Administrative Aide III - Verna S. Barizo 

 
 Administrative Aide III -  Liecelle A. Floralde 

 
 Administrative Aide III -  Erlyn P. Dilidili 

 
 Administrative Aide III Keith Anne B. Vicedo 

 
 Administrative Aide I -  Jane G. Crisostomo

----- DOC | Hours of Service | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/hours-of-service/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Regular Semester

 
 
 
 Monday – Saturday 
 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM

 (no noon break) 

 
 
 Summer

 
 
 
 Monday – Thursday 
 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM

 (no noon break) 

 
 
 Borrowing Schedule (Circulation)

 
 
 
 Circulation Books 
 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM

 (no noon break) 

 
 Reserved Books 
 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM

 (no noon break) 

 
 Photocopying of Room Use Books 
 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM

 (no noon break)

----- DOC | Library Rules and Regulations | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/library-rules-and-regulations/ | 2018-01-13 -----
General Rules

 
 Students are required to wear their valid I.D. and official uniform when entering the library except on Wednesdays and Saturdays. The library shall exempt students who belong to colleges that hold activities upon presentation of request letter signed by the College Dean.

 Student's ID is required as access to the library. This card is non-transferable. Misrepresentation by showing someone else's ID is an offense. Students caught doing such act may be deprived of their library privileges for a period of two weeks.

 A borrower's cars is issued to all students upon presentation of their Registration Form (RF) and one (1) piece of 1×1 ID picture. The card must be validated every semester. Lost borrowers card can be replaced upon submission of an Affidavit of Loss and payment or P20.00 for the first offense and P30.00 for the second offense.

 Referral letter is issued to faculty and students of CvSU who wish to do research in other libraries with a fee of P5.00 per referral letter.

 Other non-CvSU clientele is allowed to use the L.Diwa every Thursdays only upon presentation of a valid ID from their respective institutions/offices where they are enrolled/employed together with a referral and payment of P30.00 as library fee.

 Readers are reminded that the library is primarily for serious study and research.

 
 Borrowing Rights and Responsibilities

 
 CvSU graduate students may borrow a maximum of five (5) books (circulation) while undergraduate students may borrow a maximum of three (3) books (circulation) at a time.

 Books from the circulation section can be loaned for one (1) week and may be renewed for another week if not needed by other users.

 Reserved books are generally for ROOM USE ONLY.

 Reference books, periodicals, theses and dissertations are limited to ROOM USE ONLY and must be borrowed one at a time.

 Books for ROOM USE ONLY (only 1 copy each title) may be borrowed for photocopying but should be returned immediately.

 All materials borrowed must be returned on the date/time due.

 Theses/dissertations are for ROOM USE ONLY and any part of such could not be photocopied.

----- DOC | Guide to CvSU Library | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/guide-to-cvsu-library/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Orientation

 The Library Personnel shall orient students and faculty members at the start of each school year on the collections, rules and regulations and the services that the unit offers.

 Current Awareness

 Bulletin boards are available for announcements, list of newly acquired books, delinquent borrowers and websites.

 Library Users

 
 Regular Users  – all bonafide students, staff and faculty members of CvSU Main Campus

 Extended Users  – all bonafide students, staff and faculty members of CvSU Campuses as well as alumni; I.D. is required (library resources for Room Use Only)

 Visitors  – users, not from the CvSU System, who have referral letters from librarians or heads of offices where they are enrolled/employed.

----- DOC | Library Collection and Services | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/13/collection-and-services/ | 2018-01-13 -----
A. Reader's Services or Public Services 

 
 Circulation Section – consists of books used as textbooks and references in the different course offerings.

 Filipiniana Section – contains books and other materials on various subjects about the Philippines or any topic related to the Philippines regardless of author or format.

 Reference Section – consists of reference books for quick consultation purposes on specific topics of information like dictionaries, encyclopedias, atlases, handbooks, almanacs, directories, bibliographies and current sources like yearbooks and annuals.

 Reserve Section – consist of books recommended by the students, faculty and employees of the University. Library materials in this section are available for a shorter loan period so that everyone can use them.

 Theses Section- houses manuscripts of theses and dissertations submitted by CvSU students, faculty and employees appropriate for the research needs of the University.

 Periodicals Section – houses all local and foreign journals, magazines, and newspapers.

 Multimedia Section – houses all books, periodicals, educational videos/movies, etc. in CD, DVD or Blu-ray format. Other services offered in this section include: a) computers for accessing information through the internet; c) computers for reading e-resources and watching videos; c) free wireless internet access to library users (Wi-Fi Lounge); d) printing and scanning services  e) Learning Commons; and f) Collaboration Area.

 
 Online Library Section- provides online library services and learning resources (e-books, e-journals, and e-resources). The CvSU Online Library is accessible 24/7 via http:// library.cvsu.edu.ph:8000 

 B. Technical Services 

 
 Acquisition Section – handles the selection, ordering and procurement of books, periodicals, and other materials.

 Cataloging Section – takes care of the bibliographical description, accessioning, cataloging, classifying, and mechanical processing of the library materials.

 
 C. Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC)

 

 Provides access to the collections of the library. Users search a library OPAC principally to locate books and other material available at a library. The CvSU Library Web OPAC is accessible 24/7 via http://library.cvsu.edu.ph 

 D. Other Services 

 
 Library Information Literacy and User Education- to maximize the use of the library resources, facilities, and services to promote lifelong learning among University constituents and other library users, a continuing library information literacy and user education program shall be carried out. The following activities shall be done through: a) library orientation; b) library tours; c) virtual library orientation and reorientation program; d) preparation of users' guides, brochures, handbooks, newsletters and other printed and online library instructional materials

 Library Promotion and Current Awareness Services – the following activities shall be done to promote the library and update users on library information resources, facilities and services: a) Conduct of an intensive library instruction program (orientation and guided tours) for new library users at the start of every academic year; b)Preparation and distribution of the Bibliographic List of New Acquisitions/New Arrivals; c) Library Bulletin Board Displays (traditional, electronic and online bulletin board); d)  Posting of posters, tarpaulins of resources and announcements in strategic places; e) Organization of displays/exhibits of new acquisitions; f) Distribution of current contents of periodicals to concerned colleges or departments; g) Distribution of Library Brochures and User's Guide; h) Distribution of Library Newsletters “DIWA”; and i) Social media marketing

 Selective Dissemination of Information Services- Subject bibliography by program is made available for accreditation purposes. List of references upon students' request is also made available.

 Referral Services – A referral letter is issued to a student/faculty member who wants to avail of the use of the library facilities and resources of other libraries which are not available at the University Library. The researcher is referred to the library of his/her choice. This service is extended upon request from the University Librarian.

 Photocopying, Printing and Scanning Services- photocopier machine is available at the Reference and Reserve Section, 3rd Floor, while the printing and scanning services are available at the Multimedia Section, 4th Floor.

 Access to Library for Persons with Disabilities

----- DOC | CvSU places as 3rd Top Performing School Nationwide | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/cvsu-places-as-3rd-top-performing-school-nationwide/ | 2018-01-13 -----
Cavite State University was placed as 3rd Top Performing School in the December 2017 Criminologist Licensure Examination.

 College of Criminal Justice – CvSU main campus performance was 94.67% (71/75) while Bacoor campus performance was 100% (9/9) as against 35.67% national passing rate.

----- DOC | College of Criminal Justice | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/12/college-of-criminal-justice/ | 2018-01-12 -----
Historical Background 

 
 On June 2005, the Bachelor of Science in Criminology program was first offered under the College of Sports, Physical Education, and Recreation (CSPEAR) through Board Resolution No. 31 Series of 2005.

 On November 10, 2010, the College of Criminal Justice (CCJ) was created offering B.S. in Criminology program with three (3) pioneering graduates produced.

 On February 14, 2011, CHED Government Recognition No. 011 Series of 2011 was granted to Cavite State University to conduct and operate the Bachelor of Science in Criminology program in accordance with the pertinent provision of Republic Act No. 7722, otherwise known as the Higher Education Act of 1994, and by virtue of Resolution No. 153-2000, Series of 2000 of the Commission en banc.

 On April 18, 2013, the college was granted Government permit No. 15 Series of 2013 to offer Bachelor of Science in Industrial Security Administration (ISA).

 On June 2013 to June 2017, the College offered B.S. in Criminology program at CvSU-Bacoor Campus as a Learning Resource Center.

 In terms of leadership, the first designated dean was Dr. Myleen S. Legaspi (November 2010-May 2012) followed by Rev. Darius Campos (June 2012-October 2012) and Dr. Susan G. Tan (November 2012-October 2016). Dr. Famela Iza Cabe-Matic is currently the Dean of the College.

 
 

 
 It has been a potential unit since it continuously produces 100% passing rate in the Criminologists Licensure Examination.

 It has been awarded as number one (1) in the entire Region IV by the Professional Criminologists Association of the Philippines Inc. (PCAP) for two consecutive years (2016 and 2017).

 It was also one of the Top Performing Schools in the country during the 2017 Criminologist Licensure Examination conferred by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) – Board of Criminology.

 It strives to bring pride and honor to the University by realigning its thrusts and programs that reflectively produces valuable individuals back to the community. With integrity, excellence and discipline as its tenets, it continually seeks development through the guidance and support of the University and the service community as a whole.

 
 CCJ GOALS AND VALUES

 Goals 

 In line with the mission of the University, the College states the following goals:

 
 produce morally upright and globally competitive individuals in the areas of law enforcement, scientific crime detection and investigation, crime prevention, correctional administration, industrial security and its administration, criminological theory, research and analytical methods;

 conduct relevant and gender-responsive research and development activities that contribute to the theory and practice of criminal justice in the country;

 extend services to target clientele and be a partner of government and non-government entities for countryside development; and

 establish strong linkages with local, national and international community to enhance the existing resources and services of the College. 

 
 Our Values 

 We recognize that our values influence the way our students will live out their professional life. Hence, we are committed to the values of Integrity, Excellence and Discipline.

 
 INTEGRITY –  We value and honor public trust, hence, we will be honest, competent and consistent in our beliefs and actions.

 EXCELLENCE –  We strive to be the best in all aspects of schooling and individual and community action, work and life-long learning endeavors.

 DISCIPLINE –  Doing what one has to, even when it is difficult and painful, and doing it to the best of our abilities.

 
 COURSES OFFERED

 To date, the College of Criminal Justice offers two (2) undergraduate programs, namely:

 
 Bachelor of Science in Criminology 

 Bachelor of Science in Industrial Security Administration 

 
 Future undergraduate program offerings:

 
 Bachelor of Science in Law Enforcement Administration 

 Bachelor of Science in Forensic Science 

 Bachelor of Science in Correctional Administration 

 
 Future graduate program offerings:

 
 Master of Science in Criminology 

 Doctor of Philosophy in Criminology 

 
 
 BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CRIMINOLOGY 

 
 The field of criminology is the study of crime which includes the making of laws, the breaking of laws and the reaction towards law breaking. It also includes study of the various agencies of justice. It is therefore the mission of the Criminology program to provide the community with professionally competent and morally upright graduates who can deliver efficient  and effective services in crime prevention, crime detection and investigation, law enforcement, custody and rehabilitation of offenders, criminological research, public safety and security, among others.

 Program Educational Objectives 

 The program aims to:

 
 encourage research and inquiry on the nature, causes, treatment or punishment of criminal behavior and how criminal justice agencies function and respond to crime, criminals and victims;

 prepare the students for careers in crime prevention, law enforcement, scientific crime detection, correctional administration, public safety and allied fields; and

 foster the values of leadership , integrity, honesty, accountability, responsibility, with the ability to demonstrate human relations and respect for human rights while serving their fellowmen, community and country.

 
 Specific Professions/careers/occupations for graduates 

 A graduate of B.S. in Criminology is prepared for careers in the following fields, among others:

 
 Criminological Research

 Scientific crime detection and investigation (Detective / Fraud Investigator)

 Crime prevention

 Law enforcement (PNP Officer / Aviation Police / Custom Police)

 Correctional administration (Jail Officer / Prison Guard / Probation Officer)

 Public Safety

 Fire Protection and Safety

 Security management (Security Officer / Consultant / Training Officer)

 Criminalistics (Fingerprint Examiner / Questioned Document Examiner or signature Verifier / Polygraph Examiner / Ballistician / Forensic pathologist)

 Academe

 
 Program Outcomes 

 Generally, graduates of the BS Criminology program equipped with relevant knowledge, skills, attitude and values shall be able to:

 
 Conduct criminological research on crimes, crime causation, victims and offenders to include deviant behavior;

 internalize the concepts of human rights and victim welfare;

 demonstrate competence and broad understanding in law enforcement administration, public safety and criminal justice;

 utilize criminalistics or forensic science in the investigation and detection of crime;

 aook the principles and jurisprudence of criminal law, evidence and criminal procedure;

 ensure offenders' rehabilitation, welfare, development and re-integration to the community.

 
 More so, a graduate of B.S. Criminology needs to pass the Criminologists Licensure Examination in order to practice as a criminologist in the Philippines. The examination is given by the Board of Criminology under the supervision of the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC). The following are the major areas of professional subjects in Criminology.

 1. Sociology of Crimes and Ethics

 2. Law Enforcement Administration

 3. Crime Detection and Investigation

 4. Criminalistics

 Forensic Ballistics

 
 Polygraphy

 Dactyloscopy

 Questioned Document Examination

 Police Photography

 Legal Medicine

 
 5. Criminal Law and Jurisprudence

 6. Correctional Administration

 
 BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN INDUSTRIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (BSISA) 

 
 This program involves the study and application of the principles of security. It prepares its graduates to assume supervisory roles. It involves the study of the applicable interventions that confronts all types of human conditions and endeavors. It also includes the study and practice of the means of protecting resources from loss or damage.

 Program Educational Objectives 

 This program aims to:

 
 provide the students with a strong foundation on fundamental theories of industrial security and its administration;

 provide the students with a comprehensive knowledge of the diverse issues and concerns affecting security in the industrial setting;

 develop the students' skills and competencies in the design of basic security systems and their operations and functions such as but not limited to corporate and organizational security, internal office security, information technology systems security, physical security, business and commercial security, executive protection, intelligence and investigations as well as security for vital infrastructures such as but not limited to seaports, airports and the likes;

 develop the students' ability to prepare programs for best approaches and practical applications of these fundamental theories and concerns;

 produce graduates that would be best suited for professional careers in industrial security administration and the practice of security profession; and

 to make the Philippine higher education and the security industry in particular at par with current international trends and responsive to the demands of globalization.

 
 Specific Professions/careers/occupations for graduates 

 Graduates of the Bachelor of Science in Industrial Security Administration program shall have the competencies to become Officers/Managers/Administrators of the following:

 1. Critical Infrastructures 

 
 Energy Sector

 Water Utilities

 Information and Communication

 Transportation (Land,Air & Sea)

 Banking and Finance

 Public Health

 Emergency Services

 Agriculture and Food

 Manufacturing

 Government Services

 Real Estate & Strategic Commercial Centers

 Religious and Cultural Sites and Facilities

 
 2. Government Facilities and Law Enforcement 

 
 Civil Security and Public Safety Officer

 Crime Prevention

 Fire Officer

 Jail Management

 Police Officer

 Armed Forces

 
 3. Corporate Security 

 
 Asset Protection

 Company Security

 Credit and Fraud Investigator

 Guard Force Services Manager

 Health, Safety, Environment & Security

 Insurance Investigator

 Loss Prevention

 Personal Protection

 Risk Control

 Security Investigator

 Accident & Traffic Invesigator

 Security Compliance

 System Integrator Specialist

 Training Officer

 
 Program Outcomes 

 The graduates have the ability to:

 
 conduct cost-effective security survey, audit, and inspection for private and public institutions;

 conduct risk and impact analysis and loss event profiling for enterprises and state-owned establishments;

 develop and implement competitive intelligence, security and corporate investigation programs;

 plan and manage any form of contingencies and emergencies and contain crisis;

 formulate and implement security management plans and programs including business continuity plan and management. organize, develop and operate a security guard force and private detective agency; and

 organize, develop and operate a security guard force and private.

 
 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS

 Freshmen: 

 
 Original and photocopy of High School Report Card of Transcript of Records

 Original and photocopy of Certification of Good Moral Character

 Two (2) 1×1 ID Picture

 
 Transferees: 

 
 Original and photocopy of TOR or Certification of grades signed by the Registrar

 Original and photocopy of Honorable Dismissal or Transfer Credentials

 Original and photocopy of Certification of Good Moral Character

 Original and photocopy of NBI Clearance

 Two (2) 1×1 ID Picture

 
 Additional Requirements based on CMO No. 21 s. of 2005 

 
 Result of Drug Test

 Result of Psychological Test (from Government-accredited Psychological Testing Centers)

----- DOC | College of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Natural Resources | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2018/01/college-of-agriculture-forestry-environment-and-natural-resources/ | 2018-01-12 -----
History 

 1964 – RA 3917 coverted DSNAS to Don Severino Agricultural College (DSAC)

        – Offered BS Agriculture and BS Agricultural Education

 1971 – Offered Certificate in Technical Agriculture

 1980 – Implemented the Agricultural Education Outreach Project (AEOP)

 1983 – Started the Sanayan sa Kakayahang Agrikultura (SAKA) Project

 1986 – DSAC was designated as the National Training and Demonstration Center for Fruit and Vegetable-Based Products (NTDC-FVBP)

 1993 – DSAC was designated as the Regional College of Agriculture (RCA) for Southern Tagalog

 1998 – College of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Natural Resources (CAFENR) as the name of the college was born

 2000 – 2009  – CvSU was designated Center of Development for Agriculture by CHED

 2001 – Department of Forestry and Environment Science was created

 2003 – BSA program passed seocnd resurvey of AACCUP towards Level III

 2009 – Designated by CHED as Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) Center in Agriculture

         – Identified as Provincial Institute for Agriculture under National Agriculture for Fisheries and Education System

 Mission and Goals of CAFENR

 College Mission 

 The College shall provide excellent, equitable and relevant educational opportunities in agriculture and natural resource management through quality instruction and responsive research and development activities. It shall produce knowledgeable, skilled, technologically advanced, just and moral graduates.

 College Goals 

 The College shall endeavor to achieve the following goals:

 
 produce technically competent and scientifically oriented graduates who are imbued with strong entrepreneurial spirit, possess strong social consciousness, and guided by positive values and high ethical standards;

 conduct relevant research and development activities along agriculture and natural resource management that would contribute to sustainable development in its service areas;

 implement effective training and outreach programs that emphasize self-help, critical thinking and life-long learning;

 manage agricultural enterprise, projects and technology incubators to promote economically viable and environment friendly approaches and techniques; and

 establish strong linkage with non-governmental organizations, other government entities and the basic sector for the realization of the common goals.

 
  

 Curricular Programs 

 
 GRADUATE 

 
 – Doctor of Philosophy in Agriculture major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 Farming System

 
 – Doctor of Philosophy in Food Science

 – Master of Science in Agriculture major in:

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 Farming System

 Crop Protection

 
 – Master of Science in Food Science

 
 UNDERGRADUATE 

 
 BS Agriculture (IT-Enhanced) major in: 

 
 Animal Science

 Crop Science

 Agricultural Economics

 Horticulture

 Farming Systems

 
 – BS in Environmental Science

 – BS in Food Technology

 – BS in Land Use Design and Management

 – Diploma in Agricultural Entrepreneurship

 – Bachelor in Agricultural Entrepreneurship (DAE-BAE)

----- DOC | Dear Students | https://cvsu.edu.ph/2017/12/presidents-christmas-message/ | 2017-12-22 -----
It is my ardent wish to welcome you students to another semester of the Academic Year 2017-2018. This year marks the transformation of our University as it moves forward in one direction to become a Global University in 2020.

 With this transformation, comes bigger challenges but we have to stay focused in putting into practice the tenets of truth, excellence and service to achieve the vision and mission of our beloved University.

 The 2017 Free Tuition Policy for State Universities and Colleges (SUCs) has been implemented which is a big help to your parents, thus make the most of what is given to you, grab this opportunity and use it to your advantage in order to reach your dreams and aspirations.
 
 Good luck!
